IsoTrackerV2 User Manual

Table of Contents
    1. Purpose of the Manual	4
    2. Login, Navigation and Module Access	4
        2.1 Login	4
        2.2 Module Access	5
        2.3 Admin function	5
        2.4 Configuration	5
    3. Admin function	6
        3.1 Manage Users	6
        3.2 Select Time Zone	13
        3.3 Change Logo	13
        3.4 Login Scroll Text	13
        3.5 Customers	14
        3.6 Suppliers	15
        3.7 Employees	15
        3.8 Products	15
        3.9 Processes	16
        3.10 Various	16
        3.11 Others 1, Others 2 & Others 3	17
        3.12 Numbering	17
        3.13 NC, RC & Correction Fields	18
        3.14 Investigation Reminders	19
        3.15 Email Notifications	19
    4. Document Control module	21
        4.1 Things you need to know	21
        4.2 Set-Up	23
        4.3 Activities Folders	36
        4.4 Document Folders	39
        4.5 Importing Documents	42
        4.6 Commenting (or Providing Feedback) on Documents	45
        4.7 Reviewing and Approving Documents	46
        4.8 Viewing Documents	48
        4.9 Document Properties	50
        4.10 Managing Documents	51
        4.11 Change Requests	53
        4.12 Document Check Out	55
        4.13 Document Check In	56
        4.14 Document Review	57
        4.15 Super Admin Override	58
        4.16 Document Archiving	58
        4.17 Document History	59
        4.18 Document Search	59
    5. CAPA (Corrective and Preventive Action) module	60
        5.1 Things you need to know	60
        5.2 Set-Up	63
        5.3 Logging a CAPA	76
        5.4 CAPA with multiple About and Parties details	79
        5.5 Logging a CAPA from another module	79
        5.6 Copy Prior CAPA	80
        5.7 Assigning a CAPA	80
        5.8 Rejecting a CAPA	81
        5.9 Assigned CAPA	81
        5.10 Editing a CAPA	84
        5.11 Action Required	86
        5.12 Non-Conformance	86
        5.13 Root Cause	87
        5.14 Recording a Corrective Action	90
        5.15 Sending a Corrective Action Notification	92

5.16	Recording a Preventive Action
97

5.17	Sending a Preventive Action Notification
97

5.18	Reassigning a CAPA
97

5.19	Using the Search feature
98

5.20	Investigating a CAPA
98

5.21	Two-Step closing of a CAPA
98

5.22	One-Step closing of the CAPA
99

5.23	Reactivating a Closed CAPA
100
6.
Complaints Module
101

6.1	Things you need to know
101

6.2	Set-Up
104

6.3	Logging a Complaint
119

6.4	Complaints with multiple From and About details
123

6.5	Copy Prior Complaints
123

6.6	Assigning a Complaint
123

6.7	Rejecting a Complaint
124

6.8	Dispatch rules
125

6.9	Assigned Complaint
125

6.10	Action Required
129

6.11	Tasks
129

6.12	Editing a Complaint
130

6.13	Web Form logged Complaint
133

6.14	Reassigning a Complaint
133

6.15	Using the Search feature
134

6.16	Investigating a Complaint
134

6.17	Non-Conformance (NC)
134

6.18	Root Cause
134

6.19	Recording a CAPA
134

6.20	Feedback
134

6.21	Two-Step closing of the Complaint
135

6.22	One-Step closing of the Complaint
136

6.23	Reactivating a Closed Complaint
136
7.
Investigation
138

7.1	Investigation Details
138

7.2	Investigation Notifications
138
8.
Corrections
143

8.1	Settings
143

8.2	Recording a Correction
143
9.
Dashboard
145

9.1	Documents
145

9.2	CAPA
146

9.3	Complaints
148

    1. Purpose of the Manual
This document has been designed as a quick means of starting to work with isoTracker and the modules as they are added. Currently the Document Control, Complaints, Audit, Non- Conformance, Risk and Training modules are operational.
IsoTracker is an online application that is hosted on our servers. It is accessible using a standard browser and has only been tested on Chrome, Edge, Safari and Firefox.


isoTracker does not come on a disk, cannot be downloaded and does not require any installation. As a customer you do not have to maintain, update or secure isoTracker as we take care of that on our servers and at no cost to you.


    2. Login, Navigation and Module Access
        2.1 Login
Each company is assigned a unique isoTracker account. Each company account has a default Super Admin user that is included as a free user in their license. That Super Admin user can add other users and assign Super Admin permissions to one other user. The Super Admin users can have their permissions removed and assigned to other users as long as there is always a minimum of one (1) Super Admin and maximum of two (2) Super Admins.


Each user is assigned a username and a case sensitive password. The username is unique to that user and can be changed by the Super Admins. The password can be changed by the user and the Super Admins.
There is a facility on the login page for reassigning a forgotten password. This process works by matching an email address with one that already belongs to a registered user and then emailing a randomly generated alphanumeric password to that address. That user must then login using that newly generated password, change that password on the Change Password page and then login again using the password that they have just created.

If the user logging in to isoTracker repeatedly enters the wrong password, they will reach a stage (default 3 attempts which can be reset to a different number in the Admin section) when they will be locked out of the system and the words “Your Wrong Signature Count has been used up and you have been locked out of your account. Please use the Forgot Password feature below to have your account reset or contact your Super Administrator” will appear above their Username. At this stage they are completely locked out of the system and they either must use the Forgot Password feature to have the system reassign a temporary password to them or have one of their Super Admins go to that user’s Manage Users page by clicking on Admin on the top toolbar and resetting their Signature count to a number other than zero (0).
Below the password box is a drop-down list titled Set Start Page which lists the Dashboard and all the activated modules on your isoTracker account. The default start page is the Dashboard but the opening page of a specific module can be selected as the start page from the drop-down list. The selected start page will then be remembered by the browser for each subsequent isoTracker login session. A default start page can easily be changed by selecting a different one at the next login sequence.

        2.2 Module Access
IsoTracker is of a modular construction and each of the modules that you have access to can be accessed by clicking on the relevant module name on the top toolbar. The modules that are currently available are as follows:
            ▪ Dashboard: Provides access to the Dashboard on which are module specific tabs on where tasks for the relevant module and key information of the activity in that module are listed.
            ▪ Admin: Opens up the Admin section which will be different for the Super Admins from users who have been given access to it.
            ▪ Documents: Opens up the Document Control module.
            ▪ CAPA: Opens up the CAPA module.
            ▪ Complaints: Opens up the Complaints module.
            ▪ Audits: Opens up the Audits module.
            ▪ Training: Opens up the Training module.
            ▪ Non-Conformance: Opens up the Non-Conformance module.
            ▪ Risk: Opens up the Risk module.
            ▪ Reports: Provides access to standard reports for the loaded modules.
            ▪ Review: Provides access to the Management Review feature.

        2.3 Admin function
The Administration functions that are accessible by clicking on the Admin word on the top toolbar which is available to the Super Admins and any user that has been given permission access to the Database section on the Permissions page. This is described in full in Section 3 below.

        2.4 Configuration
The drop-down list below the name of the logged user has the following options:
            ▪ Help: access the User Manual, Training videos and any other support documentation.
            ▪ User: The logged in user may modify their First Name, Last Name, Email address, Password and their default Start page in this section. The Super Admins may also enable or disable Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) for all users including the Super Admins on their isoTracker account. 2FA operates by emailing a one-time code to a user after they have correctly entered their Username/Password which must be entered on the login page to complete the login process.
            ▪ Module Order: change the order of the modules on the top toolbar using drag and drop. The module at the top left will be listed on the left side of the toolbar. In addition, the Super Admins can change the name of the Complaints, Non-Conformance and Risk modules here.
            ▪ Concurrent User: provides a daily record of the maximum number of concurrent users who were logged on during a specific day.
            ▪ Logout: select this to logout of your isoTracker account.
    3. Admin function
The full administration function is only available to the Super Admins and is accessed by clicking on the word Admin on the top toolbar after having logged on. The following features are available:
    • Manage Users
    • Time Zone
    • Change logo
    • Login Scroll Text
    • Customers
    • Suppliers
    • Employees
    • Various
    • Products
    • Processes
    • Others 1
    • Others 2
    • Others 3
    • Review
    • Numbering
    • NC, RC & Correction Fields
    • Investigation Reminders
    • Email Notifications

        3.1 Manage Users
The Manage Users section is where users who have access to isoTracker are created, deleted or modified. The Super Admins have default Administrator rights to all modules and are listed at the top of this section on a yellow background. Individual users can make changes to their email address and login password on the User section which is listed as an option on the drop down list by clicking on their name at the top right.

            ▪ Add Users
Click on Create New User. Fill in the mandatory information marked with an asterisk and complete the rest of the information if required:
                • Profile: Mandatory - the options of Super Admin or Standard User are available. There can only be a maximum of two (2) Super Admin users and a minimum of one (1) Super Admin user. The number of Standard Users is limited by the user license which always includes the second Super Admin user.
                • Username: Mandatory - a username is unique to each user and must have at least 6 alphanumeric characters. It can be an email address.
                • Password: Mandatory - a password must have at least 8 alphanumeric characters in length. A password is case sensitive.
                • First Name and Last Name: Mandatory - this does not need to coincide with the Username.
                • Email Address: Mandatory - this is unique to this user and cannot be used by another user including the Super Admins. If the username is an email address then it will also automatically populate this section.
                • Department: if Department have been created in Manage Users > Departments then department options can be selected here. This feature is not available for the Profile of Super Admin.
                • User Effective Date: This is the date and time starting from which the user can login to isoTracker. This section does not need to be populated as the default effective date is the time that the user was created. This feature is not available for the Profile of Super Admin.
                • User Expiry Date: This is the date and time that the user ceased to be able to logon to isoTracker. This section does not need to be populated as the default setting is that the user never has an expiry date. However, when set it will automatically activate the Disable User feature when the selected expiry date is reached. This feature is not
available for the Profile of Super Admin.


                • Signature Count: A default count of 3 Wrong Signatures at login is set for all users, that are not Super Admins, but this can be changed my going to the Signature Count section in Manage Users. Each time a user enters the wrong password at login that count is reduced by one (1). When the count reaches zero (0), the user will be locked out. A user’s Signature Count gets reset to the default when that user logs in correctly except when the count is zero (0). This feature is not available for the Profile of Super Admin.
                • Receive Emails: The default setting is for the Receive Emails box to be activated and for that relevant user to receive all emails. When it is deselected, the relevant user will no longer receive any of the notification emails. They will however continue to receive any Forgot Password and Send Password emails. This feature is not available for the Profile of Super Admin.
                • Enable User: The default setting is for the Enable User featured to be selected. When deselected, the user is prevented from logging on to their isoTracker account. A disabled user will maintain their activity history in isoTracker but they should be removed from any assigned tasks. This feature is not available for the Profile of Super Admin.
Click on the Submit button to create the user and an email will be automatically sent to that user with their login details. The next page that will open will be the Permissions page on which module specific permissions can be assigned.
            ▪ Permissions
This page will open with the active modules listed horizontally at the top and the users listed vertically on the left. Click on the module name to maximize the permissions section for that module and make your permission selections by selecting from the radio buttons below.
Remember to click on Submit to confirm the changes.

You can narrow down the list of users by clicking on a highlighted letter above which will then display only those users having a last name starting with that letter.


The module access rules are as follows:
    • Named User license: All users have access to all modules and that cannot be changed.
    • Concurrent User license: By default users have access to all modules but this can be changed by deselecting certain modules for a specific user.

The module permissions are as follows:

Document Control
    • Admin: When this is selected Add Docs is automatically selected and in fact Admin cannot be selected by itself. Together they provide the ability to add, check-out, check- in, edit, delete and provide access to the archived versions of documents in folders that the user has Write access to.
    • Add Docs: This permits a user to add, check-out, check-in documents and to have access to the archived versions of that document in folders that they have Write access it to. By itself users cannot edit, move and delete documents but when Admin is selected as well then they can edit, move and delete documents as well in folders that they have Write access to.
    • Set-Up: This provides access to the Set-Up function for a standard user. Note that the available Set-Up functions for a standard user are fewer than those for a Super Admin user. When selected Admin and Add Docs is also automatically selected as Set-Up
cannot be selected on its own.
    • Add Folders: This permits users to create, edit and delete folders whether they have Write access or not to those folders. So it is recommended that this permission is assigned to users only if they are required to create and manage folders and not all users as folders can be easily moved and when folders are moved the Read and Write access rules for those folders can change.

Complaints
    • Admin: When this is selected the user can assign a Complaint to a user, such as themselves, or a group of users. Without this feature they will still be able to log Complaints but will not be able to assign them.
    • Set-Up: This feature gives the user access to the Set-Up section in the Complaints module. When selected the Admin function is also automatically selected and that cannot be reversed.

CAPA
    • Admin: When this is selected the user can assign a CAPA to a user, such as themselves, or a group of users. Without this feature they will still be able to log CAPAs but will not be able to assign them.
    • Set-Up: This feature gives the user access to the Set-Up section in the CAPA module. When selected the Admin function is also automatically selected and that cannot be reversed.
Non-Conformance
    • Admin: When this is selected the user can assign a Non-Conformance to a user, such as themselves, or a group of users. Without this feature they will still be able to log Non-Conformances but will not be able to assign them.
    • Set-Up: This feature gives the user access to the Set-Up section in the Non- Conformance module. When selected the Admin function is also automatically selected and that cannot be reversed.
Audits
    • Admin: When this is selected the user can create, run and close audits as an Auditor. They can also create an audit and assign it to another Auditor. Without this feature they will not be able to act as an Auditor in isoTracker.
    • Set-Up: This feature gives the user access to the Set-Up section in the Audits module. When selected the Admin function is also automatically selected and that cannot be reversed.
Training
    • Admin: When this is selected the user can create, run and close training events as an Trainer. They can also create a training event and assign it to another Trainer. Without this feature they will not be able to act as an Trainer in isoTracker.
    • Set-Up: This feature gives the user access to the Set-Up section in the Training module. When selected the Admin function is also automatically selected and that cannot be reversed.

Risk
    • Admin: When this is selected the user can assign a Risk to a user, such as themselves, or a group of users. Without this feature they will still be able to log Risks but will not be able to assign them.
    • Set-Up: This feature gives the user access to the Set-Up section in the Risk module. When selected the Admin function is also automatically selected and that cannot be reversed.
Database
    • When this is selected the user gets access to certain databases in the Admin section being Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Products, Processes, Various and Others. They do not get access to any other of the features in the Admin section.
Reports
    • When this is selected the user gets access to the reports for the modules that they have access to. There are two (2) types of reports being Standard Reports which a pre- developed and Advanced Reports which can be created and customized. If you feel that you require additional reports than those available please contact your isoTracker representative.

Click on Submit to confirm the changes. If you move away from that page after making changes, then a pop-up will appear reminding you to save the changes. You can click on Cancel if you do not want to save those changes. Click on OK and then on Submit to save those changes.
    • User Listing
Users are listed in alphanumerical order on the basis of their last name except that the Super Admins are always at the top with a yellow background. The number of Active Users is listed in the top right and will include External Users as well with the number of External Users also listed. Clicking on the External User numbers will open the External Users page. Note that one (1) Super Admin is always included as a “free user” for the Named User license and for that reason does not get included in the Active Users. The listing displays the following columns:
        ◦ Name: being the First and Last Name of the user
        ◦ Username: being the relevant user’s username which must be unique to each user.
        ◦ Access: being the modules that the user has access to. For a Named User license all users automatically have access to all active modules which cannot be changed. For a Concurrent User license each user can have access to fewer than the active modules. In addition, a user can be given access to Reports (RPT) and the Database (DATA) which is a cut-down version of the Admin section and which all Super Admins automatically have access to the full version.
        ◦ Administrator: this will list the abbreviation of the modules that the user has Administrator permissions and this is displayed in the following fashion:
            ▪ DC: when the user has Add Docs only selected for the Documents module Permissions.
            ▪ DC: in red when the user has both Add Docs and Admin selected for the Documents module Permissions.
            ▪ C: when the user has Admin selected for the Complaints module Permissions.
            ▪ NC: when the user has Admin selected for the Non-Conformance module Permissions.
            ▪ A: when the user has Admin selected for the Audit module Permissions.
            ▪ T: when the user has Admin selected for the Training module Permissions.
            ▪ R: when the user has Admin selected for the Risk module Permissions.
            ▪ CP: when the user has Admin selected for the CAPAs module Permissions.
            ▪ Super Admin: when the user is a Super Admin and has every Permissions on all modules. This cannot be changed.
            ▪ Click on any Administrator section to open the Permissions page.
        ◦ Status: users that are active have the word Active listed and inactive users have the word Disable listed. Click on the word Active of any user to Disable them and the opposite to make them Active.
        ◦ Count: being the number of failed login attempts that the user has. It is reduced by a single digit each time a user enters an incorrect password and when the number has reached zero (0) then the user is locked out and must use the Forgot Password feature to gain access to their account again.
        ◦ Email: with Yes being when the user receives all email notifications and No when the user has will not be receiving email notifications. Click on Yes to have it change to No and vice-versa. The Forgot Password and the Send Password emails are never deactivated.
        ◦ Logins: being the total number of times that the user has logged into their isoTracker account.
        ◦ Last Login: this is the date that the user last logged in to their isoTracker account.
        ◦ Action: click on the Delete icon to delete the user, click on the Edit icon to make
changes to the user. For bulk user changes select more than two (2) users and then select the action from the Action drop down list being Stop Email, Start Email, Disable User or Enable User. To delete a user this can only be done one user at a time. Note that disabling or deleting users may be restricted if the user has responsibilities in the system which will need to be separately removed for the status of that user to change.
        ◦ Registration: this can be found by clicking the + icon on the left of the user’s name and is the date when the user was added to the system.
        ◦ Email Address: this can be found by clicking the + icon on the left of the user’s name and is the user’s email address which MUST be unique to that user.
        ◦ Effective Date: this can be found by clicking the + icon on the left of the user’s name and is the date that the user can first login to their isoTracker account. By default a user can access their isoTracker as soon as they are created in the system and then no date gets listed here.
        ◦ Expiry Date: this can be found by clicking the + icon on the left of the user’s name and is the date that the user can no longer login to their isoTracker account. By default a user does not have an expiry date and then no date gets listed here.

Bulk actions can also be performed on users by selecting the relevant tick boxes under the Action column and then selecting an option from the Action drop down list at the top. The available options are as follows:
        ◦ Stop Email: this will stop notification emails from being sent to the selected users after the OK button is clicked on the confirmation pop-up. Note that the Forgot Password and the Send Password emails will continue to be sent.
        ◦ Start Email: this will start notification emails being sent to the selected users after the OK button is clicked on the confirmation pop-up.
        ◦ Disable User: this will disable the selected users after the OK button is clicked on the confirmation pop-up and the word Active under the Status column will change to Disable.
        ◦ Enable User: this will activate the selected users after the OK button is clicked on the confirmation pop-up and the word Disable under the Status column will change to Active.
        ◦ Delete User: this will only work for a single user and will delete the selected user after the OK button is clicked on the confirmation pop-up. Note that any responsibilities will need to be removed before a user can be deleted as explained in the Delete Users paragraph below.
    • Modify Users
Click on the Edit icon under the Action column on the right and make changes to the relevant fields. Then click on Submit to confirm the changes. Note that the username can be edited as long as it is not edited to be the same as another username. Also, when the name of a user is changed the history for that user will only be changed to the user’s new name from the moment of the change. So, in order to maintain the past history of a user who is no longer on isoTracker, that user should be either disabled or deleted. A user can be disabled by deselecting the Enable User on their Manage User page.

In addition, a user can have their Profile changed to that of a Super Admin as long as there is not two (2) currently active Super Admins. A Super Admin can have their Profile changed to that of a Standard User as long as they are not the sole Super Admin in which case another user will need to be given the Profile of a Super Admin before the current one can have their Profile changed.

    • Delete Users
Click on the Delete icon under the Action column on the right. A user can only be deleted once their responsibilities are removed such as being removed from all User Groups in the Documents module, User Groups and Job Roles in the Training module, as an Assigned User in open Complaints, Non-Conformances, CAPAs and Risks and as an Auditor in open Audits. A deleted user will maintain their activity history in isoTracker and any tasks they have been assigned to will automatically be reassigned to the Super Admin. So before deleting a user they should first be disabled, then have their tasks reassigned to other users and then, finally,
be deleted. Note that a user who is a Trainee in the Training module will automatically be terminated from any Training Event that they have not completed.
A Super Admin cannot be deleted but their Profile can be changed to that of a Standard User when they can then be deleted as long as their responsibilities have been removed.

    • Bulk Upload Users
This function permits a long list of users to be added all at once using a CSV (Comma Separated Value) or an Excel file. Click on the File Format link to see the order the fields should be on the CSV file and which are the mandatory fields. The bulk upload feature overrides the username and password formats which are required on the Create New User page.

Once the file is identified using the Browse function the file is uploaded by clicking the Submit button. Note that if the file is in the required format and with the mandatory fields present, then a secondary confirmation is required to confirm the upload at the bottom of the list.

The next page that appears is the Permissions page on which you can assign roles for each user as described in the Permissions section above. Remember to click on Submit to confirm the Permissions that have been assigned to the relevant users.
    • Send Password
An email can be sent to the selected users in the system informing them of their isoTracker URL, username and password. In order to select the users who are to be sent the email, move the relevant user from the left-hand box to the right-hand box and then click on the Submit button. You can narrow down the list of users by entering a word string of their First or Last Name in the Filter box.

    • Signature Count
This sets the number of times an identified user can enter an incorrect password before they are locked out of the system. The default Wrong Signature Count is 3 but this can be changed for all users in the system by entering a different positive whole number in the Signature Count field and then clicking on Submit. All users’ signature count will then be reset to the new default number including those users that have an amount that is different from the previous default.

Note that the Signature Count does NOT apply to the Super Admins who effectively have no restrictions.
    • Departments
This is a non-mandatory drop-down field in the Add User section and the Options for that field can be added here. Just enter the option one by one in the Department Name field clicking on the Return button after completing each option. When all the options are added then click on the Submit button to complete the addition. The order of the options can be changed using drag & drop. Options that have not been used can be deleted, while options that have been used cannot be deleted but can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column.
If you have a long list of Departments use the Departments Bulk Upload feature by entering a separate department on each row of the first column of a CSV or an Excel file. Then using the Upload feature, select your file and click on Submit. On the next page will be listed the uploaded options with a selected tick box on the right if the Option is not already listed. Click on Submit to confirm the upload.

    • User Records
This is a record of all the changes made to Internal users in isoTracker. Select the date range that you want the records to cover in the Date Range box and click on Apply at the bottom of the calendar pop-up. The displayed record can be extracted by clicking on the CSV or Excel buttons at the top.
    • External Users
External Users are not restricted to a single login session per user which means that an External User account can be shared and that all the users in that share can be logged in simultaneously. Each External User is treated as a single user in terms of the user license package.
In addition, External Users have restrictive access to certain functions in each of the modules as follows:
        ◦ Document Control: Cannot have Document Admin, Set-Up, Add Folders or Add Doc rights even when they have Write access to a document. They can view documents that they have Read/Write access to and they can approve documents.
        ◦ CAPA: Cannot have CAPA Admin or Set-Up rights but can log a CAPA and respond to Investigation and CAPA notifications on CAPAs that they have logged directly into the system.
        ◦ Complaints: Cannot have Complaint Admin or Set-Up rights but can log a Complaint and respond to Investigation notifications on complaints that they have logged directly into the system.
        ◦ Audits: Cannot have Audit Admin or Set-Up rights but can respond to Investigation notifications as long as they are the Auditee on the Audit.
        ◦ Non-Conformance: Cannot have NC Admin or Set-Up rights but can log a Non- Conformance and respond to Investigation notifications on NCs that they have logged directly into the system.
        ◦ Training: Cannot have Training Admin or Set-Up rights so they are not Trainers and cannot create a Training event. However, they can be selected as a Trainee and so can respond to Investigation notifications on Training events that they are a Trainee in.
        ◦ Risk: Cannot have Risk Admin or Set-Up rights but can log a risk and respond to Investigation and Risk task notifications on Risks that they have logged directly into the system.
Click on Users and then on Add New External User at the top of the page to add External Users one at a time making sure to respect the mandatory field requirements. Click on Bulk Upload Users to use the bulk upload feature for External Users similar to the regular user bulk upload but with slightly different field requirements which you can view by clicking on the CSV File Format link.

If you operate with a Concurrent User license then a Permissions page will be available for External Users on which you will be able to restrict access to different modules for each External User.
Click on Send Password to email to the selected External Users their isoTracker account and login details.
Click on Settings and see that the default setting is for First & Last Name to be mandatory fields. You can change that to Company but be careful that if you already have External Users then you will need to make sure that you fill in the new mandatory field immediately in each of your External Users to prevent any problems.

Click on External User Records and see all the changes made to External users in isoTracker. Select the date range that you want the records to cover in the Date Range box and click on Apply at the bottom of the calendar pop-up. The displayed record can be extracted by clicking on the CSV or Excel buttons at the top.

When External Users are listed in a Select User feature anywhere in isoTracker they are always listed in green to clearly identify them as external users.
    • Logged Users
This will list the users that are currently logged on into your account. You can force a logout of a user by clicking on the word Logout under the action column.
On a Concurrent User account, when the maximum concurrent user number has been reached the Super Admins, if they are not already logged in, will only be able to access this section where they will be required to logout a user before they will be able to access the rest of the system.

        3.2 Select Time Zone
An account can only have a one time zone and this is where the time zone for the account is set when the account is created. In order to prevent confusion of conflicting dates and times for activity in the database an account’s time zone can only be changed by request to a customer’s isoTracker representative. This should only be required in the event of an account being assigned the incorrect time zone when it was first created.

Below the time zone is a Business Hour feature that is only used by the Complaints module and which defaults to a working week of 24 Hours x 7 Days this means that a task that is due to be completed within 24 hours of a Complaint that is logged on a Friday will have a due date on the next day, the Saturday, exactly 24 hours later from the date the Complaint was logged.

By selecting “Select Working Days/Hours” and setting the working days and hours in a typical working week plus any holidays, this then permits the system to skip those non- working days and hours when calculating the interval for tasks and Complaint closures. So for example if a Complaint is logged on a Friday and Saturdays and Sundays are non-working days then a task that is due in 24 hours from a Complaint being logged will have a due date of Monday rather than Saturday.

When selecting “Select Working Days/Hours” the week starts on a Monday and a normal 5 day and 8 hours per day working week is displayed below. The week start can be changed by selecting a different day from the Week Starts On drop down list. The working days and the hours of work for those days can be changed by selecting the working days using the tick boxes on the left of each day and then using the From and To drop down lists for each working day and remembering to click on Submit at the bottom even when keeping the default setting.
Click on Holiday List on the left toolbar and holidays can be added one at a time for the current year and any up-coming years. Holidays are considered as non-working days and will be skipped when time based tasks are activated.

        3.3 Change Logo
The logo displayed within isoTracker can be customized to meet your needs. Using this option, you can select a logo of your choice or revert back to the default isoTracker logo.

To use a logo of your choice, select the second option. Use the Browse button to select your desired logo, and then click Submit to save your choice. Note that there is a size restriction to the logo which is 220 x 70 pixels. If it is bigger than that size it will be rejected and if it is smaller it will be resized and may be blurred.
If you do not like the looks of the logo that you have selected then contact your isoTracker representative who will have your logo optimized to improve its appearance.

        3.4 Login Scroll Text
This feature provides you with the ability to place a scrolling text on the Login page of all users for a defined period of time. Enter the desired words in the Scroll Text box, select a Start and End Date and then click on Submit. The scroll text will then scroll across the top of all users’ Login page.

The scroll text can be stopped by selecting the Stop Display tick box and then clicking on
Submit to confirm the changes.
        3.5 Customers
In this section, you can build a list of Customers that is then available to be used in all the modules. Note that the name Customers can be changed by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the word Customers. This opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This change will then be reflected across all the modules.

Before you begin to create a list of customers there are two things that need to be done as follows:
            ▪ You need to check that you have all the fields that you want and in the order that you want them. Click on the Add Fields button and you will see all the default fields listed in order. You can change the order of any field by dragging and dropping them. You can deactivate fields that you don’t want by clicking on the word Active under the Action column which then changes to Inactive and that field is no longer available. You can also have up to twenty five (25) new fields to the Customers fields. To add new fields, click on the Add Field button at the top of the page, in Field Type select either Drop-Down, Text Box, Large Text Box or Date and then enter a Field Name. If you select Text Box a feature titled Blank Field appears in the third position with No as the default appears. Leave it to No if you want to be able to add data in this field in this Customers section and then have it appear on the New Complaints page, New Audit page, New Non-Conformance page or the New Risk page. Select Yes if you want this field to always appear blank on those pages where you record a Complaint, an Audit, a Non-Conformance or a Risk and in which can be added data only on those pages and can then be edited on the Properties section of the relevant event. Select the Make Mandatory Field tick box if you want that field to be mandatory and then click Submit to confirm the creation of the Field. If the Field is a Drop-Down list, then you will be asked to create Option Values on the Add Customers Field Option page. The order of the Options can be changed using drag and drop.
            ▪ New fields are added at the bottom of the list of fields and you can place it in the desired location using drag and drop. The new fields can be deleted if they do not have any content; otherwise, if there is content then they cannot be deleted but they can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active on the Status column.
            ▪ You now need to identify which of the fields you want as mandatory. By default in Customers, the Company field is mandatory but you can change it as long as you do not have any Customers listed and you also have already added another mandatory field before making that change. To change the mandatory selection click on the Edit button under the Action column, select or deselect the mandatory tick box and then click on Submit. Note that you MUST ALWAYS have at least one (1) field that is mandatory.


You can now begin to add your customers to the list. Click on Add New Customer, enter the Customer’s name as well as all its other details in the relevant fields remembering to enter the mandatory fields which are identified with *. Click Submit to save your entry. By default, the Status of a newly added customer is Active. You can click the word Active to change it to the Inactive status.
There can be multiple individuals with a similar First Name and Last Name as long as they are with different Companies or have different email addresses. You can have the same Company as long as there are different First and Last Name or have different Email addresses. If there are two or more customers with exactly the same First and Last Name, then you will need a middle initial or a middle name after the First Name.

You can make changes to a customer’s detail by clicking on the Edit button, however a Customer who has an active Complaint, Audit, Non-Conformance, Risk or Training Event
cannot be edited until the that event is Signed Off or Closed. Customers can also be deleted if they have not been used in any of the modules by clicking on the Delete icon under the Action column.
You can also add a long list of customers by using the Customer Bulk Upload facility. These must be listed in a CSV (Comma Separated Value) format, be in the required order with at least the mandatory fields. As the Bulk Upload facility requires a strict format, please test it out before doing the upload of all your data or contact your isoTracker representative to help you.
To create Customer groups click on Customers Group and then on Add Customer to Group at the top of the page. Give the group a name and then move the relevant customers from the left box to the right box to make them part of that group. Click on Submit to confirm the creation. Multiple Customer groups can be created and there is a default All Customers group. A Customer Group can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column which changes to Inactive.

Individual Customers can be added to multiple groups on the Add Groups to a Customer page, then click on the Edit icon under the Action column for the relevant Customer and move the groups that you want them to be part of, from the left box to the right box and then click on Submit.
The Customers Records page will list the details of changes for each Customer listed in the database. So when they were created, had contents changed such as name or email address, who made the changes and when were the changes made.

        3.6 Suppliers
In this section, you can build a list of Suppliers that is then available to be used in all the modules. Note that the name Suppliers can be changed by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the word Suppliers. This opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This change will then be reflected across all the modules.
To add, modify and delete Suppliers, including the creation of Supplier Groups, follow exactly the same instructions as with Customers.

        3.7 Employees
In this section, you can build a list of Employees that is then available to be used in all modules. Note that the name Employees can be changed by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the word Employees. This opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This change will then be reflected across all the modules.

To add, modify and delete Employees, including the creation of Employee groups, follow exactly the same instructions as with Customers.

        3.8 Products
This option enables you to create and maintain complete details of all the Products handled by your organization. There is also the facility of adding up to twenty five (25) Product Fields. Note that the name Products can be changed by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the word Products. This opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This change will then be reflected in the Complaints, Non-Conformance, Audits, CAPA, and Risk modules.
It is best to create your additional fields before adding products. These additional fields could be product size, pack size, manufacturing location, color, flavor etc.… There is space for twenty five (25) fields.
To create a product field, click on the Add Field button at the top of the page, in Field Type select either Drop-Down, Text Box, Large Text Box or Date and then enter a Field Name. If you select Text Box a feature titled Blank Field appears in the third position with No as the default appears. Leave it to No if you want to be able to add data in this field in this Products section and then have it appear on the New Complaints page, New Audit page, New Non- Conformance page or the New Risk page. Select Yes if you want this field to always appear blank on those pages when you record a Complaint, an Audit, a Non-Conformance or a Risk in which can be added data only on those pages and can then be edited on the Properties section of the relevant event. Select the Make Mandatory Field tick box if you want that field to be mandatory and then click Submit to confirm the creation of the Field. If the Field is a Drop-Down list, then you will be asked to create Option Values on the Add Products Field Option page. The order of the Options can be changed using drag and drop.
The Products field is a Mandatory field and all the added fields can also be made Mandatory. The Products field cannot have the Mandatory setting removed but it can be done to the added fields.

Now to add a product to the Products listing, click on the Add Products button, enter the Products name, if you are a reseller of the product and want to associate a supplier with the product then on the Suppliers field select the tick box next to Select to activate the Suppliers field, use the drop-down list to select the Supplier, and then select or enter the other product details in the relevant Product Fields. Click Submit to save your entry and it then gets automatically added to the Products listing.
You can Edit a product by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column, make your modifications and then click on Submit. To delete a Product, click on the Delete icon. Note that once a product has been used in a module it cannot be deleted but it can be rendered inactive by clicking on the Active link.

You can also add a long list of products by using the Product Bulk Upload facility. This requires a CSV (Comma Separated Value) or Excel format and have the data listed in the required order based on the fields you have created. Note that for a Product Field that is a Blank Field cannot have data entered into it either in the Add Product feature or in Product Bulk Upload.

The Products Records page will list the details of changes for each Product listed in the database. So when they were created, had contents changed, who made the changes and when were the changes made.

        3.9 Processes
In this section, you can build a list of Processes which is then available to be used in various modules, in particular the CAPA, Complaints, Non-Conformance, Risk and Audits modules. Note that the name Processes can be changed by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the word Processes. This opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This change will then be reflected in the CAPA, Complaint, Audits, Non-Conformance and Risk modules.
To add, modify and delete Processes follow exactly the same instructions as with Products
except that it integrates with the Products field instead of the Suppliers field.

        3.10 Various
In this section, you can build a list of individuals that are not Customers, Suppliers or Employees which is then available to be used in the From, About and/or Parties section of various modules. Note that the name Various can be changed by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the word Various. This opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This change will then be reflected in the Complaint and Audits modules.
To add, modify and delete Various, including the creation of Various groups, follow exactly the same instructions as with Customers.
        3.11 Others 1, Others 2 & Others 3
This feature permits you to create up to three of your own databases for the About sections of the CAPA, Complaints, Non-Conformance, Audits, Training and Risk modules, the From section of the Complaints module and the Parties section of the CAPA module. This means that if the Products, Processes, Customers, Suppliers, Employees and Various lists do not meet your requirements you can create new lists here. There are represented as Others 1, Others 2 and Others 3 with each representing a different database. You can change those names for those databases by clicking on the pen icon on the right of the relevant word which opens a text box in which you can type the new name and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. The new name for that Others database name that you have changed will show up everywhere the previous name was listed.

Up to twenty five (25) fields can be added to each Others database section. It is best to create your additional fields before adding to the relevant Others database lists. To create a new field, go to Add Fields and then click on the Add Field button at the top of the page, then on the Field Type drop-down list select Drop-Down, Text Box, Large Text Box or Date, enter a Field Name and click on Submit. If you select:
            ▪ Text Box a feature titled Blank Field appears in the third position with No as the default. Leave it to No if you want to be able to add data in this field in this Others section and then have it appear on the New page for various modules. Select Yes if you want this field to always appear blank on the New pages in which data can be added to it or edited into the relevant Properties page. Click Submit to confirm the creation of the Field.
            ▪ Drop Down, then you will be asked to create option values on the Add Options page. The order of the Options can be changed using drag and drop.

A Field can be deleted if it has not been used in a module. If it cannot be deleted, then it can be rendered inactive by clicking on the word Active in the Status column. To edit a Field, click on the Edit icon, make the changes in the Field Type and Field Name boxes and click on Submit.
Now to add to the relevant Others database listing, click on the Add Others button, enter the Others name and then select or enter the other details of the item in the relevant Others Fields. Click on Submit to save your entry and to continue adding further Others items in the same way.

You can also add a long list of Others by clicking on the Bulk Upload button. This requires a CSV (Comma Separated Value) or Excel format and have the data listed in the required order based on the fields you have created. Note that an Others Field that is a Blank Field cannot have data entered into it either in the Add Others feature or in Others Bulk Upload.
Others listings can be edited by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column, make your modifications and then click on Submit. To delete an item in the Others list, click on the Delete icon. Note that once an Others item that has been used in a module it cannot be deleted but it can be rendered inactive by clicking on the Active link.
The Others Records page will list the details of changes for each of the Others listed in the database. So when they were created, had contents changed, who made the changes and when were the changes made.

        3.12 Numbering
This section will change depending on whether or not you have the Non-Conformance module activated then you will need to go to Non-Conformance > Set-Up > Number where you will be able to edit the Third Section only. Otherwise the following apply:
Non-Conformance, Root Cause and Corrections have their own unique numbering system. The numbering systems are as follows:
            ▪ Non-Conformance: NCR-YY-0001
            ▪ Root Cause: RC-YY-0001
            ▪ Correction: CORR-YY-0001

Where YY represents the last two (2) digits of the current year and the 0001 number increments with each occurrence.
This section permits the editing of the Third Section only of each feature’s numbering system. To change the Third Section of a number, click on the Edit icon under the relevant Action column and the edit function appears above the list of numbering systems with the following fields:
            ▪ First Section: This section remains fixed. It CANNOT be edited to another alphanumeric combination and it MUST be unique in the system.
            ▪ Second Section: This represents the last 2 digits of the year and will increment by one digit at the beginning of each year. It also cannot be edited.
            ▪ Third Section: This section will increment by one digit each time it is assigned to the relevant new feature. It can have a different starting number other than the default setting of 1 for the first year of operation but this does get reset to 1 at the beginning of each new calendar year.
Note that that these numbering systems cannot be deleted or deactivated.

        3.13 NC, RC & Correction Fields
This section will change depending on whether or not you have the Non-Conformance and/or the CAPA module activated and it will follow the following rules:

            ▪ If you have the Non-Conformance module active then you will need to go to Non- Conformance > Set-Up > Fields > New Fields to manage and add fields to the Non- Conformance Record section of the Non-Conformance module and the tab in all the other relevant active modules.
            ▪ If you have the CAPA module active then you will need to go to CAPA > Set-Up > Root Cause > Fields to manage and add fields to the Root Cause tab in all relevant modules as well as the CAPA module.
Assuming that you do not have the Non-Conformance and the CAPA module activated then this section will allow to manage and add fields in the following sections:
            ▪ The Non-Conformance tab, in modules other than the Non-Conformance module, where up to twenty-four (24) additional fields can be created. As explained above, when the Non-Conformance module is activated this section is moved to Non- Conformance > Set-Up > Fields > New Fields.
            ▪ The Root Cause tab, in modules other than the CAPA module, where up to twenty-four
(24) additional fields can be created. As explained above, when the CAPA module is activated this section is moved to CAPA > Set-Up > Root Cause > Fields.
            ▪ The Correction tab, in all the modules where sections can be added, edited, deleted and populated with additional fields.
    • Non-Conformance
To create a field for the Non-Conformance tab in modules other than the Non-Conformance module, click on the NC Fields and then on Add Fields at the top, then select the Field Type of either a Drop Down, Text Box, Date or Large Text Box, if you want it to be a mandatory field then select the Make Mandatory Field tick box, give the field a name in the Field Name box and then click on the Submit button. If you selected Drop Down in the Field Type box you will then be asked to populate the Option Values for the drop-down list. Enter the relevant values in the Option Value text box, clicking on the Enter key each time and then adding the next one, then when you have your complete list click on the Submit button and
the options get added to the list at the bottom. The order of the fields as well as the order of the option values for a drop-down list can be re-arranged using drag and drop.
Note that there is a default field at the top of the Non-Conformance fields called Importance as a drop-down list with the option values of Critical, Major and Minor. This field cannot be deleted or moved. The title of that field can be edited and addition option values can be added but the default option values cannot be deleted but they can be edited. The Importance field can be also made mandatory. So the maximum number of fields for the Non-Conformance object is twenty five (25) fields including the Importance field.

    • Root Cause
To create up to the maximum of twenty five (25) fields for the Root Cause tab, in modules other than the CAPA module, click on the Root Cause Fields on the left and follow the same process as with the Non-Conformance fields.

    • Correction
The name of the Correction tab can be changed here as well as the sections on that tab can be changed.

To change the name, click on the pen icon on the left of the word, make your changes in the box that opens and then click on the Save icon.
There are three (3) default sections being Action Required, Action Taken and Effectiveness. They each have the following default fields:
        ◦ Action Required: Target Date and Responsibility. These fields can be edited, delete, added to and made mandatory.
        ◦ Action Taken: Completion Date and Completed By. These fields can be edited, delete, added to and made mandatory.
        ◦ Effectiveness: Completion Date and Completed By. These fields can be edited, delete, added to and made mandatory.
The default sections can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column which changes to Inactive. They can also be edited by the clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column. The order of the sections can be changed using drag and drop.

        3.14 Investigation Reminders
This is where the Interval and the Duration of reminders for Investigation notifications is set. The default setting is that the Interval between notification reminders is 1 Day and the Duration of the reminders is 7 days. This can be changed by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column and choosing a different Interval and/or Duration from the drop down lists that appear above. Make sure to click on Submit to confirm your changes.

        3.15 Email Notifications
This feature permits the Super Admins to send an email from the isoTracker account to their users. This email can be of any subject and for any purpose.

To send an email click on the Add Email button at the top, then in the boxes that appear below select the users to whom this email will be sent to by moving them over from the left box to the right box, enter the Subject of the email and type in the contents of the email including the signature. You can use the macros on the right on the email by clicking on them once you have the cursor in the body of the email where you want them to be placed. The macros are:
            ▪ First Name: The first name of the receiving user.
            ▪ Last Name: The last name of the receiving user.
            ▪ Send User: The name in isoTracker of the Super Admin user sending this email.
            ▪ Account Address (URL): The URL of your isoTracker account.
In addition, you can format the text of the email by using the features available on the header of the Email Body & Signature feature. Attach documents by using the Click to Upload feature and then click on Submit to send the email.
All sent emails are recorded in this feature and can be accessed by clicking on the View icon under the Action column.
    4. Document Control module
        4.1 Things you need to know
The Document Control module permits the version control of almost all types of electronic documents. It operates by providing Read and Write access for groups of users, and individual users, to folders and the documents that are held in those folders. A Read user can only view a document while a Write user can create and manage documents if these rights have been assigned to them by activating the Admin and Add Docs features on the Permissions page. Any user can also create and manage folders if they have Add Folders activated on the Permissions page. Current versions of documents can be searched for and prior versions of documents are archived and accessible by Write users only from the Archive on the document properties page. Each workflow event in a document is recorded in their history.

            ▪ Opening Page
When clicking on Documents on the top toolbar the start-up screen opens with the following features:
                • The Treeview: Documents in the document control module are stored into folders. Folders are added and displayed in the Treeview and can be opened by clicking on their heading and when sub-folders have been created these can be listed by clicking on the “+” or “-“ signs next to their parent folders. There are two (2) types of folders, being Activities folders that are available to all users and which list the relevant user’s tasks, and custom folders that are created by you to hold documents and manage those documents. These custom folders also follow restrictive access rules to their documents.
                • The Data area: This is on the right of the Treeview. All data regarding folder content, folder properties, document import, document properties, document workflow and the selections that are made are displayed into this area.
In addition, at the top of the page are the following icons with a description of their role:
                • Hide Folders: Click on this icon to hide the Treeview and increase the size of the Data area.
                • Folder Properties: This opens up the properties of the opened folder. This is available to users if they have had Add Folders activated on the Permissions page.
                • Copy Folder: This permits a folder tree to be copied, without its documents but with its access rights, to a different location being either at Root Level or below another folder. This is available to users if they have Add Folders activated on the Permissions page.
                • New Folder: Click on this icon to create a new folder and assign access rights. This is available to users if they have had Add Folders activated on the Permissions page.
                • Delete Folder: This is available to users if they have had Add Folders activated on the Permissions page. A folder cannot be deleted if it holds documents or has documents in a workflow process including going through the approval process and not yet published. A folder will be deleted along with its sub-folders if they don’t have any documents in them.
                • New Document: Click on this icon to import a single document or documents in bulk from a user’s desktop into isoTracker. This is available to users who have Add Docs activated on their user page.
                • View All: This will display all the documents held in the folders that the user has access to.
                • Set-Up: This is the Set-Up function for the module which is described below and which is only available to users who have Set-Up activated on the Permissions page.
                • Search: This provides a keyword search of documents that the logged-on user has access to. The keywords will be searched for only in the document’s Name, the Keywords section and the activated Document Fields. There is no content search facility in isoTracker as it would mean that the documents would have to be decrypted on our servers and therefore compromise security.
            ▪ Document Administrators
A user should be assigned the permissions of Admin and Add Docs if you want them to manage documents in the Documents module. Below are the descriptions of each of the attributes on the Admin > Users > Permissions page:
                • Admin: When selected always also activates Add Docs and which cannot be selected by itself. It activates the document management features such as Edit Properties, Move, Copy and Delete features in the Properties page of a document that they have Write access to.
                • Add Docs: Activates the New Document icon on the main Document Control page which gives the user the ability to upload documents, to Check Out/Check In documents and to access the Archive tab on which are listed a document’s prior versions all in folders that they have Write access to. It is strongly recommended that Admin is selected along with Add Docs in order to have full document management capability. Note that any of these features will be deactivated at various stages when a document is in workflow.
                • Set-Up: Activates the access to the Set-Up icon and its functions which are described in the Set-Up section below.
                • Add Folders: Activates the Folder Properties, Copy Folder, New Folder and Delete Folder icons on the main Document Control page which gives the user the ability to add, edit, copy move and delete ALL folders. As the users with this permission can make a lot of changes to the access rules for documents it is suggested that you only provide this to users who are responsible for the folder structure.


The Super Admins have default Write access to all folders and can perform all Document Admin roles but will not receive notifications that other Document Admin/Add Docs users who have been specifically assigned Write access to folders will receive as part of their role.
            ▪ Notifications
IsoTracker will communicate Document Control workflow events using notifications on the relevant users’ Dashboard under the Documents tab. These notifications are also supported by email notifications to the relevant users and will also appear in the relevant Activities folders of Comments, Approval, Check Out & Check In. The notifications are as follows:
                • Pre-Approval Comment: When the document is sent to for review and comment.
                • Comment Received: When a selected user has replied to the request to comment on a document.
                • Comments Completed: When the last selected user has replied to the request to comment.
                • Comment Check In: When a document is ready to be checked-in following the comment process Check Out. The document is not issued a new version number.
                • Required Approval: When a user is required to review and approve or reject a document.
                • Approved Document: When a document has been approved and published (these are sent to all users with Read and Write access to a document upon publishing of the relevant document). The email notification for Approved Documents will be sent only once a day, at around midnight account time, listing the approved and published documents that the receiving user has either Read or Write access and that were published in the past 24-hour period.
                • Rejected Document: When a document has been rejected and changes need to be made to it. The email notification will also be sent to the Approvers of that document informing them of the rejection and the reason for the rejection.
                • Change Requests: When a change request has been submitted and needs to be approved or rejected.
                • Approved Change Request: When a change request has been approved and the document should be modified according to the change request.
                • Rejected Change Request: When a change request has been rejected. This notification disappears upon clicking through.
                • Document Check In: When a document is to be checked-in as a result of modifications that result in a new version. This can be after a standard document Check-Out, using the Upload New Version feature or Restoring a prior version, Also, this may or may not be as a result of a change request.
                • Required Reviews: When a document needs to be reviewed to determine whether or not it is still applicable. The email notification for Required Reviews will be sent only once a day, at around midnight account time, listing the documents that went into the status of Required Review that the receiving user has Write access and that went into that status in the past 24-hour period. There is also the ability of selecting additional reminder before or after the Required Review date in Set-Up > Approval Types > Review Reminders.

        4.2 Set-Up
The Set-Up section for Document Control is only available to the Super Admin and
Document Admins and has the following features:
            ▪ Manage Groups: This permits the creation of user groups that then can be used to assign Read or Write access to folders and their documents.
            ▪ Approval Types: These set the approvers and the order of the approvals that must be followed during the document approval process and/or the change request approval process. An Approval Type must be added to a document when it is created. In addition, the frequency of reminders for required reviews, which are set in an approval type, can be set here.
            ▪ Fields: For the Super Admin there are two (2) menu links being the Fixed Fields section and the New Fields section. On the Fixed Fields menu link, which is only available to the Super Admins, the titles of some Activities folders, the name of the Objects and Tabs on the documents properties and on the titles on the Properties page can be edited. On the New Fields section, up to ten (10) document fields can be created on the Properties page which can be an automatic numbering system, drop down lists or text boxes. If an automatic numbering system is created this can only be done once and be located in the 1st position of the document fields.
            ▪ Keywords: These are used to help with the document search facility. A list of keywords can be created here and then easily added to a document on the new document page.
            ▪ Templates: Commonly used Templates can be uploaded here, version controlled and distributed to all users.
            ▪ Documents in Workflow: This feature permits a workflow stage for a specific document to be reversed. This could be used in the event of a mistake.
            ▪ Reference Documents: This feature lists the new version, and only latest version, of documents that have been published and that have Reference Documents so that it can be determined whether the Reference Documents also require changing.
            ▪ Deleted Documents: This is effectively a recycle bin from which deleted documents can either be restored or removed from the system.
            ▪ Archived Documents: This is only available to the Super Admin and permits the deletion of the oldest archived version of a document, when that one is deleted the next oldest version can be then deleted.
            ▪ Retained Documents: These are documents that have been removed from the normal workflow and can be retained in isoTracker for an extended period of time.
            ▪ Rules: This section is only available to the Super Admins. There are eight different rules that can be activated here. These are the secondary confirmation for the approval of documents, having different approval types for document and change request approvals, activating the options to delete or retain a document after an approved change request, a blinking read confirmation button when a new version of a document is published, having documents be viewed in a viewer for read users only, having the Super Admins be able to override other users approvals, the ability to email documents to external email addresses and to connect to the training module if it is activated on the account.
            ▪ PDF Settings: The ability to locate the logo, the fields and their locations on a PDF for documents in folders that have Convert to PDF activated.

Page 23 of 150
            ▪ Document Listing: To change the fields that appear on the listing of documents when a folder is opened.
            ▪ Change Request Field: An additional Change Request field can be added here either as a text box or a drop-down list.
            ▪ External Documents: The distribution of external documents not controlled in isoTracker can be recorded here.
            ▪ Bulk Manage Documents: To make changes to the properties to multiple documents at one time such as changing Approval Types, Owners, etc.
            ▪ Bulk Manage Folders: To make changes to the properties of multiple folders at one time such as changing Read and/or Write access, Convert to PDF, etc.

Each of these Set-Up features in the Documents module are explained in detail in the following paragraphs.
    • Manage Groups
User Groups are groupings of users that are then used to provide access to folders and to the documents held in them.

The type of access that can be provided by these User Groups is as follows:
        ◦ Read Access: This permits the user to view the documents and to record change requests on the documents held in the folders. It does not permit any addition, modification or deletion to those documents. Create Groups for that purpose.
        ◦ Write Access: This is the right to manage the documents held in the folders. Write access must have at least Add Docs activated on the Permissions page to add and Check Out/Check In documents. This expands to the ability to manage and delete the documents when Admin is added for that user on the Permissions page. Again, create Groups for that purpose.
There are two User Groups that are present by default and these are the Admin group which has the original Super Admin as the only user and the Everyone group which has every Internal user in the system (but at the default state excludes External Users). The Admin group must at least have one Super Admin but it can be edited and have other users added to it. The Everyone group cannot have Internal Users removed but can be edited to add External Users. Both these default User Groups cannot be deleted.


Add Groups:
The Add Users to a Group page is the default page and is the one on which User Groups can be created. Click on Add Users to a Group at the top, enter the group’s name and then assign users by transferring them over from the left-hand box to the right-hand box by highlighting them and then clicking on the Add button. The users displayed in bold red have Admin AND Add Docs rights activated for them (this means that they can Add, Check Out/Check In and manage documents), while those that have only Add Docs rights and NOT Admin will be displayed in red (which means that they can ONLY Add and Check Out/Check In documents BUT NOT manage them). External Users are listed in green and these cannot Add, Check Out/Check In and manage documents. Use the Search Users facility to narrow down the list in the left-hand box. Then click on the Submit button to confirm the creation of the group.
Modify Groups:
Click on the Edit icon under the Action column of the group that needs to be modified and make changes to the relevant fields including adding or removing users. Then click on Submit to confirm the changes. Note that groups can also be added to a user using the features in the Add Groups to a User menu link.

Delete Groups:
Only groups that do not contain any users AND have not been assigned to one or more folders can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon under the Action column of the relevant group on the Add Users to a Group page.

    • Approval Types
Approval Types MUST be created before importing documents as each document MUST
have an Approval Type.


Create Approval Types:
To create an Approval Type, click on the Add Approval Type button at the top. Enter the following information and then click on the Submit button:
    • Document approval type: This is the unique name of the Approval Type which will be listed when creating new documents. So a descriptive name is best.
    • Description: Explains the purpose of this Approval Type. This field is only viewable in this section.
    • Select Use: Unless “Activate different Change Request approvers to Document approvers” has been activated in Set-Up > Rules then Both is the default and the options of Document Approval only and Change Request Approval only are greyed out.
    • Approvers: Select the users who would be required to review and approve documents by moving them from the left to the right hand box. Give them an order by highlighting them and using the Move Up or Move Down buttons below the right hand box. For a Sequential approval, the sequence will start with the user at the top and go down the list. If you do not select any Approvers in an Approval Type, then documents using that Approval Type will be published immediately upon import without going through the Approval workflow process.
    • Approval Sequence: Select from Sequential or Non-Sequential. For a Sequential approval, the approver at the top of the list will be notified first and then when they have confirmed their approval the next approver on the list is notified and so on until the number of approvals has been achieved. With Non-Sequential all approvers are notified simultaneously.
    • Number of Approvals: For a Sequential approval this field gets deactivated. But for a Non-Sequential approval the drop-down list will have the number of approvers listed in the Approvers box as a default. By selecting a lesser amount than the number of selected approvers, then the approval process will be completed when that revised number of approvals has been reached for a Non-Sequential approval only.
    • Effective Date: A delayed date & time other than the immediate can be selected to have a document published after it has been approved. The default setting is immediately after approval. If you do not select it, this field will not be displayed at import and the default will automatically apply. This feature is deactivated if the Use is for Change Request Approval only.
    • Expiry Date: A date & time can be selected by which the document gets automatically deleted. The default setting is for no expiry date. If you do not select it, this field will not be displayed at import and the default will automatically apply. An expired document will be sent to Set-Up > Deleted Documents. This feature is deactivated if the Use is for Change Request Approval only.
    • Review Date: Select this feature to be able to set a review date as identified in months from the date of import using the drop-down list on the right with the default being 12 months. If you do not select it, this field will not be displayed at import and a review
date cannot then be set for a document. This feature is deactivated if the Use is for Change Request Approval only.
    • Reminder: Select this feature which activates reminder emails to the approvers of a document. Up to five (5) reminder notifications go out and you can select the interval between reminders in days from the drop down list with the default being 1 day. The reminder notifications will be sent until the approver has completed their individual approval task. The default setting is Yes which activates the reminder notifications but these can be deactivated by selecting No. If you do not select it, this field will not be displayed at import and reminders will not be sent out to approvers.
    • Additional Approver: An Additional Approver is an Approver who can be an Internal user, an External users as well as a person who is not a user but must have an email address and be listed in one of the databases in the Admin section being Customers, Suppliers, Employees or Various. Only one (1) Additional Approver can be selected per Approval Type and they can either be preceded by other approvers or be on their own without other approvers preceding them. Select from the Type drop down list then move the Additional Approver from the left to the right hand box. This is not mandatory and gets activated only when the Additional Approver section is opened.


On the listing of the Approval Types please note the following:

    • Use: If Both is listed then the Approval Type can be used for both document approval and Change Request approval.
    • Approvers: Lists the total of the regular approvers and the Additional Approver. If it is listed in red then there is an additional approver.
    • Approvals: Lists the numbers of approvals required for the document to be approved. This number includes the Additional Approver.
    • Attributes: Eff means that Effective Date is activated, Exp means that Expiry Date is activated. Rev (12) means that Required Review is activated and that the delay is 12 months from the date the last published version of the document was uploaded. Rem
(3) means that Reminder emails have been activated and that the interval between each reminder is 3 days.
    • Documents: This is the number of documents that this Approval Type is associated with.
    • Status: Active when the relevant Approval Type can be selected for a document. Inactive when the Approval Type cannot be selected for a document but remains active for documents it is already associated with. Click on the relevant word to change it to the other status.
    • Action: An Approval Type can be deleted if it is not associated with any documents. If it is associated to one or more documents it cannot be deleted but it can be rendered Inactive on the Status column.


Approval Types can be modified but it will cause documents in the approval process to have that process immediately and automatically restarted from the beginning. The situations when this will occur are when the order of approvers or the sequence of the approval is changed.
If the number of approvers is reduced or increased, then any documents currently going through the approval process will immediately reflect those changes.

Also, any changes to the Attributes such as Effective Date, Expiry Date, Review Date and Reminder will immediately be reflected in the document except when a Review Date has already been Accepted or Rejected in which case the workflow will continue as if there was no change.
An Approval Type that is associated with a document cannot also be deleted. It can however be de-activated so that it can no longer be selected for a new document. To delete an
Approval Type, click on the Delete icon under the Action column. To de-activate an Approval Type click on the word Active under the Status column in the listing and it will change to Inactive.


Review Reminders:
These are reminders that are sent out to the Write access users of a document informing them that a document is approaching a Required Review, has reached its Required Review date or has passed its Required Review date. While a document will only go into Workflow from the moment that it has reached its required review date changes can be made at any time prior to that date.

By default, only the “At Due Date” reminder gets sent, however, earlier or later reminders can be activated by clicking on the relevant word of Inactive under the Status column which then changes to Active. Conversely, an active reminder can be stopped by clicking on the word Active which changes to Inactive. Reminders are sent by email and as notifications on the Dashboard to the relevant users.

Bulk Edit Approvals:
While each Approval Type can be edited using the Edit icon from the listing, on this page multiple Approval Types can be edited at one time.

First, select from the Bulk Edit Action drop down list one of the following:
    • Change Sequence: then select an option on the From Sequence drop down list which then lists the Approval Types with that selected sequence. On the To Sequence drop down list select the other sequence, on the Action column select the Approval Types that you want changed and then click on the Change button at the bottom left.
    • Change Number of Approvals: then select an option on the From No of Approvals drop down list which then lists the Approval Types with that selected number of approvals. On the To No of Approvals drop down list select from the options, on the Action column select the Approval Types that you want changed and then click on the Change button at the bottom left.
    • Change Approver: then select an option on the From Approver drop down list which then lists the Approval Types with that selected approver. On the To Approver drop down list select a replacement approver, on the Action column select the Approval Types that you want changed and then click on the Change button at the bottom left.
    • Change Additional Approver: then select an option on the From Additional Approver drop down list which then lists the Approval Types with that selected additional approver. On the To Additional Approver drop down list select a replacement additional approver, on the Action column select the Approval Types that you want changed and then click on the Change button at the bottom left.
    • Change Attributes: then select an option on the From drop down lists that appear below making sure that you only select from the attributes that you want to change, once selected the Approval Types with those selected attributes are displayed below. The relevant To drop down list appears on the right of the From drop down list when an option has been selected on the From list. Select an option on the To drop down list and on the Action column select the Approval Types that you want changed and then click on the Change button at the bottom left.
    • Fields
There are two (2) sections, the Fixed Fields section, which is only available to the Super Admins, and the New Fields section which is available to users who have access to Set-Up, each described as follows:
Fixed Fields:
This is the default page when this section is opened but does not appear to Standard Users with Set-Up activated in Permissions and permits the Super Admins only to edit the titles in the Activities folders, the name of the Objects or Tabs on the documents properties and the titles on the Properties Page. Click on the little pen on the left of any of the titles, make your modification when the text box opens and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. The titles that can be changed are:
Activities
        ◦ Templates
        ◦ Favorites

Objects
        ◦ Notes
        ◦ Check Out
        ◦ Change Request
        ◦ Approval
        ◦ Comments
        ◦ History
        ◦ Archive
        ◦ Check In

Properties
        ◦ Owner
        ◦ Name
        ◦ Keywords
        ◦ Version
        ◦ Reference Documents
        ◦ Support Documents
The changes will be reflected on all Documents past, current and future.
New Fields:
You may assign up to ten (10) fields to identify documents by. If any of these fields are mandatory, then they must be populated when the document is initially imported. Otherwise, they can be populated later using the Edit Properties feature. These fields are mainly used to facilitate the search process. A field can either be an automatic numbering system, a blank text box where information is entered or a drop-down list from which an item is selected from a list. The field at the top of the list, the field in the number one position, is the only one that gets displayed by default on the document listings. Also, the automatic numbering system, if created, can only be at the top of the list and cannot be moved from that position.

To create a field, click on Add Document Field at the top of the page, then select the Field Type from Automatic Numbering, Text Box, Drop-Down or Date, assign a name, select the Make Mandatory Field tick box if you want that field to be mandatory and click Submit.
If the field is Automatic Numbering, then you will be required to create one or more numbering systems on the next page by entering information in the following fields:
        ◦ Number Name: This is the name of the relevant numbering system which must be unique.
        ◦ Prefix: This is the fixed element of the number which remains unchanged and is limited to 25 characters.
        ◦ Start Number: This is the staring number when this numbering system is first selected and which will increment which each new document it is associated with.
Multiple numbering systems can be created and their order in the list at the bottom of the page can be changed using drag and drop. In the event that the Prefix of an Automatic Numbering system is edited then it will automatically the Prefix in all the documents without changing the assigned number.
If the field is a Drop-Down list, you will be required to populate the list on the next page by entering all the values in the Option Value box, clicking on the Return key after each value and then clicking on the Submit button to create the list of options.
The Drop-Down list can be reordered using drag and drop. Use the Edit icon to change an
Option Value or the Delete icon to delete it.

Note that once a Field has been used in isoTracker it can no longer be deleted. It can however be deactivated by clicking on the word Active in the Status column. It can be modified using the Edit icon and any Mandatory requirement can also be removed. Note that making a field mandatory after it has been used can cause problems with prior documents which will require that field to be populated at the next Check In or using the Edit function.


    • Keywords
This feature permits you to create a list of Keywords that can be added to a document either during the initial upload or while editing that document’s properties using the Edit Properties function. Keywords are used to facilitate the document search functionality.
To add a Keyword, click on Add a Keyword at the top of the page and then enter your keywords one at a time clicking on the Return key after each keyword and then clicking on the Submit button to create the list of keywords. Use the Bulk Upload functionality to upload an Excel list of Keywords. Keywords added on the document properties page will also be added to this list.

The entered keywords are listed at the bottom in alphanumerical order. Once a keyword has been used in isoTracker it can no longer be deleted but it can be deactivated.
    • Templates
Using this feature Templates that are commonly used across the business can be uploaded here, versioned and distributed to all users via isoTracker. To upload a template, click on the Add Template button at the top of the page, then identify the document using the Browse function and give it a name and assign a version from the two (2) drop down lists and click on Submit.

Templates are versioned by isoTracker and to bring a new version of a Template into isoTracker click on the Edit icon on the Action column of the relevant Template, then click on the Check Out button at the top of the page. This downloads the template and opens the Check In page. Make the changes to the Template from the download and save it to your desktop. Then on the Check In page, select the new version using the browse feature, for the next version number select Next Major Version or Next Minor Version and click on Submit. The new version is then available to all users and replaces the previous version.

The history and the prior versions of a Template are available by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column.
    • Documents in Workflow
There are occasions when a document has been prematurely sent into a workflow stage. This workflow stage can be reversed using this feature. The workflow stages that can be reversed are:
        ◦ Unassigned
        ◦ Comments
        ◦ Approval
        ◦ Required Review
        ◦ Change Request
        ◦ Approved Change Request
        ◦ Check Out
        ◦ Comment Check Out
        ◦ Delayed Publishing
When a document is going through one of these workflow stages it will be listed with its Status. Hover over the Delete icon to see the prior status of the document, click on the Delete icon and then on the secondary confirmation pop up box to cancel the workflow stage it is in and revert it to its previous stage. If Approval is reversed it would be reverted to Comments or Unassigned if these where its prior workflow stages. The document in this case would remain on the Documents in Workflow list but with its new status which would be either Comments or Unassigned. The prior process of Document removed from Workflow means that the document was at rest, or not in a workflow process, prior to it being listed here.

The deletion of the Required Review process is similar to the Required Review being rejected and the document will be automatically assigned a new Required Review date in the future based on the rules in its Approval Type.

The deletion of a process in this feature will also be listed in the document’s history.


    • Reference Documents
In this section are listed the latest published versions of documents that have reference documents and permits easy access to those reference documents so that they can be changed.
Each listed document has a + icon and an envelope icon under the Action column. Click on the + icon to list that document’s Reference documents below it. Click on the envelope icon to automatically send an email to the Write access users of that document to inform them that they should look into the relevant Reference documents and ascertain whether they need to be changed.

Click on the Properties icon on the listed Reference documents to open the properties of that document in a separate browser tab from which can be checked-out. Click on the Delete icon to remove that Reference document from the list. This function is only available to users who have Write access to a document and have Admin and Add Docs selected on their Permissions.

Documents will be removed from this list when they are in workflow, when a new version has been published, when the Reference documents have all been updated and/or the Reference documents have been removed from this page by clicking on their delete icon.

    • Deleted Documents
The right to delete a document is only available to users who have Write access to a document and have Admin and Add Docs selected on their Permissions. When a document has been deleted it is removed from its display folder and transferred to Deleted Documents in the Set-Up section. This is effectively the Recycle Bin for your isoTracker account.

From this list the documents can be deleted entirely from the system by selecting it under the Action column and then clicking on the Delete button at the top of the listing. Alternatively, the document can be restored by clicking on the Restore icon and then selecting the folder that it should be restored into and the Approval Type, with both the source folder and Approval Type being listed by default in the pop-up, and then clicking on the Submit button. If separate Document and Change Request approvals have been activated then the pop-up will have the Destination Folder, Approval and Change Request types.
    • Archived Documents
In this section, which is only available to the Super Admins, are listed all documents held in the module that have at least two (2) versions. Single only versions of published documents are not listed in this section.
Only the Super Admins are able to delete Archived documents and will also be required to confirm each deletion by entering their password in a pop-up box.
The listing shows the number of versions of the document held being at least the published version plus one in archive, so at least two (2) versions, the total size of all the versions and on the Action column a + sign. When this + sign is clicked all the held versions are listed below with the published version at the top detailing the version number, the size of that specific version and the date when that version was archived.

The Action column of the oldest version of that particular document will have a Delete icon. The more recent versions do not have that Delete icon. Click on the Delete icon and confirm the deletion by entering the password for the Super Admin user.

After the oldest version is deleted the Delete icon then appears on the Action column of the next oldest version which is now the oldest version as listed. When the only version remaining is the published version then that document is removed from the Archived Documents listing.
The deletion of an archived version is recorded in that document’s History with the date of the deletion and the version deleted.
At the top of the Archived Documents page there is a drop-down list called Source Folder Archive which lists all the folders in order that they are listed in the Folder Treeview. The default listing is All which display all the documents with their archived versions. Selecting a folder from the drop-down list will narrow down the listing to the documents in that selected folder that have at least two versions with one being active and the other held in archive.

    • Retained Documents
The Retained Documents feature provides the ability to have a document removed from its folder as well as its assigned workflow process and moved to a section from which it can be retained in isoTracker for an extended period of time. The ability to move documents to the Retained Document listing is only available to users who have Admin on the Permissions, who have Write access to the Document, and to the Super Admins.

Retained Documents are accessible only by clicking on the Retained Document link in Set- Up. From this list documents can have their Retention Date modified by using the Edit function. They can be restored by clicking on the Restore icon and then selecting the folder that it should be restored into, the Approval Type and the Change Request Approval (if activated in Set-Up > Rules) before clicking on the OK button. A retained document can be deleted but only once its Retention Date has been reached.

    • Rules
This section, which is only available to the Super Admins, permits the activation and deactivation of certain features within the Documents module as follows:
        ◦ Activate electronic signatures of documents at approval: By selecting this option an approver is required to confirm their identity by entering their username and password in a pop-up box after they have selected either Approve or Reject as assigned approvers in the approval section of a document. The approval, or rejection, will not be confirmed if the user’s login details are incorrect. Also if the username/password combination is incorrectly entered three (3) times, isoTracker will immediately logout. This does not apply to the Change Request approval process. It does apply to Additional Approvers and in which case they will receive two (2) emails with the first one providing their username, which is normally their email address, and the second one providing a one off password. The default is that this feature is not activated but when activated it can only be deactivated by requesting it to your isoTracker representative.
        ◦ Activate different Change Request approvers to Document approvers: By selecting this option the approvers of the document can be different than the approvers of a change request recorded on that same document. Approval Types can be for Document Approval only, Change Request Approval only or Both.
        ◦ Activate Delete and Retain Documents for Change Requests: By selecting this option the options of Deleting or Retaining a document after a Change Request has been approved is added to the ability to only Check Out the document. This feature is available to the Write access users of a document, who have Admin and Add Docs activated on their Permissions, after a Change Request has been approved when there are approvers and after the recording of the Change Request when there are no approvers.
        ◦ Activate a Read confirmation button: By selecting this option a green blinking OK button will appear on the document’s listing and the document’s properties of Read users of a document when a new version of that document is published. When clicked this button confirms that it has been read and the button then disappears. The default setting is that this is not activated.
        ◦ Activate document viewer for all Read access users: By selecting this option Read only users of a document are no longer able to download it but can view it in a viewer that opens the document in a new browser tab without the ability to download it. When Activate document download is selected then a download button appears on the viewer.
        ◦ Super Admins can override approval: By selecting this option, the Super Admins are able to send a document for approval or check out when in the Comments process, to approve a document or a change request, to Check Out a document or to Check In a document all on behalf of another user. This is done by selecting in the relevant Activities folder the option of “On behalf of” instead of “Own Tasks” at the topwhich will list all the tasks assigned to other users and which the Super Admins can perform. For approval of documents and change requests the “On behalf of” user will have to be selected when the approval is non-sequential and when it is a sequential approval the “On behalf of” user will be automatically identified. In all cases a comment will be required whether the process is an approval or a rejection. The “On behalf of” action is recorded in the document’s history.
        ◦ Activate emailing of documents by: This option permits selected users to email documents in PDF format to multiple external email addresses. When not activated this feature is only available to the Super Admins. When activated this feature is extended first to Write users of documents and then can be further extended to include all Read users as well. The emailing of a document will be recorded in its History.
        ◦ Connect Training: This option is only available when the Training module is part of the license. By connecting the Document Control module to the Training module then Training can be added to documents as they are being uploaded in the Document Control module and are automatically assigned to Read users and/or Write users which are scheduled as soon as the document is published.

    • PDF Settings
This feature permits you to format the PDF that is produced when the Convert to PDF feature is activated in a folder. The features that are available to format the PDF are as follows:
        ◦ Activate Logo on PDF header: By selecting this option the account Logo as identified in Admin > Change Logo is the Logo that appears at the top of each page of the document. When selected the default location is on the top left of the page but this can be changed to the top right. This feature is not activated by default.
        ◦ Displayed Fields on PDF: This feature is activated by default and places information about the document in the header of the PDF. If the feature of Activate Logo on PDF Header is selected, then the fields can only be in the footer. There are four (4) default fields which are Name, Field 1 (which is most likely Number), the version number and the date that the version was published. These can be changed and the number of displayed fields can be increased to six (6) fields by selecting the fields from each drop down list. The number of fields can also be decreased. The appearance of the fields can also be changed in the Font Type and Font Size drop down lists and the Color palette.
        ◦ Activate Watermark: This feature activates a diagonal watermark on each page of the PDF. There is a default watermark which can be changed here as the default. The default can also be changed on each folder when the Convert to PDF feature is activated. If there is no default watermark, then the Watermark box on the folder’s properties page is blank. Also, if this feature is not activated then there is no watermark on the PDFs.
Remember to click on the Submit button to confirm any changes. Note also that changes may take time if they occur when there are a lot of documents in the system. So if you wish to make changes at any time other than before uploading your documents then you should contact your isoTracker representative to facilitate the process.

    • Document Listing
This feature permits the selection of fields that are displayed as columns on the Document Listing when a folder is opened and when the View All button is clicked. To add a field, first remove any fields you do not want by clicking on the Delete icon. Then add a Field using the Add Field feature at the top, select a field to list on the Action Required page on the Field drop-down list and click on Submit. A maximum of 10 fields can be displayed with the Name and the Action fields being default fields that cannot be removed. The order of the fields can be changed using drag and drop except for the Action field that cannot be moved. The field that is used to order the documents can be changed from the default Name field by clicking on the word No under the Order column of the filed that you want the documents to be ordered by. Order of that field changes to Yes and the Order of the Name field changes to No.

    • Change Request Field
This feature permits you to create a field that can be either a Text Box or a Drop-Down list and which provides additional information about a Change Request. An example of this field could be a Reason for the Change Request and be constructed in the form of a drop-down list.

To create the field, click on the Add Change Request Field button at the top of the page and then select Text Box, Drop-Down or Date from the Field Type drop down list, assign a Field Name, make it Mandatory if you wish, and then click on Submit. If a Drop-Down list is selected the Add Fields Option page opens in which you must enter the relevant options in the Option Value text box clicking on the Return key after each option and then clicking on the Submit button to create the list of options. The order of the option list can be modified using drag and drop.
Note that an Option once used cannot then be deleted but can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column. To Delete an Option, click on the Delete icon under the Action column and then on the OK button in the confirmation pop-up box. To Edit click on the Edit icon under the Action column, make your changes and then click on Submit.

    • External Documents
This feature permits the creation of a record of External Documents and to whom they have been distributed to. This list is completely independent of the other functions in the Documents modules and is only to be used to effectively control documents that are not held in isoTracker.

Create your list by clicking on the Add External Documents button at the top of the page
and enter the mandatory fields which are Document Name, Version, Owner and Version Date. You can enter any information in the Issued To boxes and selecting from the drop down list the number of versions that were issued. Click on Submit to confirm the addition to the list.
Clicking on the Edit icon on the Action column of an External Document open the Edit External Document fields at the top displaying the content. Make changes directly into the fields including the Version field and then click on Submit and the revised information is listed. Any change including a new version is recorded in the History as an Edit.
To delete External Documents, select the documents in the tick box on the Action column and then click on the Delete button above. There will be a secondary confirmation pop-up which when the OK button is clicked will move the document to the Inactive tab. An inactive External Document can be reactivated by opening the Inactive tab and clicking on the Reactivate icon.

Each External Document, whether Active or Inactive, has its history which can be viewed by clicking on the History icon.
    • Bulk Manage Documents
This section which is only available to Super Admins, is where changes to documents can be made to more than one document at one time.

Select from the Action drop down list one of the following options:
        ◦ Move Documents
        ◦ Delete Documents
        ◦ Retain Documents
        ◦ Change Approvals
        ◦ Change Owners

        ◦ When Move Documents is selected a From Folder drop down list appears on the right with options of All Folders and then the rest of the Folders listed as in the Folder drop down list on the New Document page. Select a folder and the entire list of documents in that folder appears below. Once a folder is selected from the From Folder drop down list then a To Folder drop down list appears further to the right. Select a folder from the To Folder drop down list and then select the documents that you want moved on the Action column and click on the Move button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked the selected documents are moved to the To Folder. If the To Folder has the Convert to PDF rules activated, then the documents may take some time to be converted to PDF.

        ◦ When Delete Documents is selected a From Folder drop down list appears on the right with options of All Folders and then the rest of the Folders listed as in the Folder drop down list on the New Document page. Select a folder and the entire list of documents in that folder appears below. Select the documents that you want deleted on the Action column and click on the Delete button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked the selected documents are moved to the Deleted Documents folder in Set-Up.
        ◦ When Retain Documents is selected a From Folder drop down list appears on the right with options of All Folders and then the rest of the Folders listed as in the Folder drop down list on the New Document page. Select a folder and the entire list of documents in that folder appears below. Select the documents that you want to be retained on the Action column and click on the Retain button at the bottom left. A pop- up appears on which you will need to enter a Retain Until date from the calendar feature and when the OK button is clicked the selected documents are moved to the Retained Documents folder in Set-Up with their Retain Until date.

        ◦ When Change Approvals is selected a From Folder drop down list appears on the right with options of All Folders and then the rest of the Folders listed as in the Folder drop down list on the New Document page. Select a folder and the entire list of documents in that folder appears below as well as a From Approval drop down list below. The From Approval drop down list will only list the Approval Types used by the documents in that folder. Select an option from the From Approval and the list of documents is further reduced to those only using that Approval Type and a To Approval drop down list appears on the right. Select from the To Approval drop down the Approval type you want to change to. Then select the documents that you want to have the Approval Type changed on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked the selected documents have their Approval Types changed to the selected To Approval.
If in Set-Up > Rules > Activate different Change Request approvers to Document approvers is activated, then a From Changes drop down list will appear below the From Approval drop down list. If a From Changes option is selected, then the list of documents will be further reduced and a To Changes drop down list will appear on the right.

On the To Approval drop down list will be listed only the Approval Types with the use of Both and Document Approval only. On the To Changes drop down list will be listed only the Approval Types with the use of Both and Change Request Approval only.

Changes can made to both the Approval Type and the Changes type or one or the other.
        ◦ When Change Owners is selected a From Folder drop down list appears on the right with options of All Folders and then the rest of the Folders listed as in the Folder drop down list on the New Document page. Select a folder and the entire list of documents in that folder appears below as well as a From Owner drop down list below. The From Owner drop down list will only list the Owners of documents in that folder. Select an option from the From Owner list and the list of documents is further reduced to those that only have that Owner and a To Owner drop down list appears on the right. Select from the To Owner drop down list the Owner that you want to change to. Then select the documents that you want to have the Owner changed on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked the selected documents have their Owner changed to the selected To Owner. Note that the Owner has no role in isoTracker.

    • Bulk Manage Folders
This section which is only available to Super Admins, is where changes to folders can be made to more than one folder at one time.
Select from the Action drop down list one of the following options:
        ◦ Move Folders
        ◦ Delete Folders
        ◦ Change Properties
        ◦ Change Name

        ◦ When Move Folders is selected a From Parent Folder drop down list appears on the right with a tick box below titled Include Selected From Parent Folder. Select a folder and its child folders are listed below and if the tick box is ticked then the selected folder will also appear below. A To Parent Folder drop down list appears on the right listing all the folders with the exception of the folder structure selected on the From Parent Folder drop down list.
Select a folder from the To Parent Folder, then select the folders that you want to move on the Action column and click on the Move button at the bottom left. A secondary pop- appears, click on OK button and the selected folders are moved to below the selected To Parent folder.
The properties of the moved folders will remain unchanged unless the following is done before the Move button is clicked:
            ▪ Select the tick box titled Use Destination Parent Folder Properties to have the moved folders take the properties of their new parent folder.
            ▪ Open the Change Properties section below and select the PDF, Read access and Write access features that you want the moved folders to have.

        ◦ The Delete feature will delete only folders with no documents in them. When Delete Folders is selected. a From Parent Folder drop down list appears on the right with a tick box below titled Include Selected From Parent Folder. Select a folder and its child folders are listed below that do not have any documents and if the tick box is
ticked then the selected folder will also appear below also if it does not have any documents.
Select the folders that you want to delete on the Action column and click on the Delete button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-appears, click on OK button and the selected folders are deleted.

        ◦ When Change Properties is selected a From Parent Folder drop down list appears on the right with a tick box below titled Include Selected From Parent Folder. Select a folder and its child folders are listed below and if the tick box is ticked then the selected folder will also appear below.
Then at the bottom left of the listed folders click on the + icon next to Change Properties which opens the folder properties page. Nothing will appear in the folder properties features that appear below, and you then select the Convert to PDF, Read access and Write access properties that you want changed to. Then select the folders that you want the new properties to apply to on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop- appears, click on OK button and the selected folders will have their properties changed to the new selected properties.
        ◦ When Change Name is selected a From Name drop down list appears on the right which lists as options all the names of the different folders. Select a name from the list and the folders with that name are listed below.

A To Name text box appears on the right. Type in a name that you want to change to, select the folders that you want the name to be changed to on the Action column and click on the Change Name button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-appears, click on OK button and the selected folders will have their name changed to the new name.

        4.3 Activities Folders
The Activities Folders are at the top of the Treeview and are folders which contain documents that the user is required to perform a task on. Once this task is performed the document is removed from that folder and is then sent to the next workflow stage. If the next workflow stage requires a task to be performed, then the document could appear in another Activities Folder. The Activities Folders are static and cannot be modified or deleted.

There is a bracketed number on the right of the root Activities folder indicating how many tasks the logged in user has to perform in total in the Comments, Approval, Check Out and Check In sub-folders. Each of the activities sub-folders, excluding the Templates folder, will also have a bracketed number on the right of the relevant folder indicating how many tasks the logged in user has listed in the relevant sub-folder. In both cases the bracketed number will immediately change when the constituent task has been assigned or completed.
There is also a Favorites folder, which does not contain tasks but where frequently used documents can be easily accessed. Documents must be placed in that folder and the number of documents in that folder will appear as a bracketed number on the right of the folder name.

The folders and their roles are explained below:
            ▪ Comments folder
Documents listed here are going through the Comments process. Which are documents that prior to being approved have been sent to be reviewed and commented on. Another word for this task could be providing feedback.

When a document is listed in this folder, and you have the Pre-Approval Comment notification on your Dashboard, then you should open the document, review it and comment on it. You can also attach a different version of the document in your reply which will be listed as a separate draft from the original which is be draft A. The document will remain in the Comments folder until the sending user has either Checked Out the document or so sent for
Approval a specific draft of the document. You may send addition replies as long as the document remains in the Comments folder.
If you are the user who sent this document to be commented on, then the document will stay on this list until you have either checked it out to be modified or sent it to be approved. The various stages in the Comment workflow are:
    • Unassigned: When the document is uploaded into isoTracker using the Save button on the upload page and therefore has not been either Sent for Comment or Sent for Approval.
    • In Review: The document has been Sent for Comment but no comment response has yet been submitted.
    • Answered: At least one user, but not all the selected users, has submitted a comment response.
    • Completed: All the selected users have each submitted a response to the request for comment.
A document can be Checked Out or sent for Approval at any time as soon as it has been sent out for Comment. In addition, if one or more replies have an attached document then the sending user can decide which one they want to Check Out or sent for Approval by clicking on the relevant button below the reply.

When in Set-Up > Rules > Super Admins can override approvals, is activated then only for Super Admins, a drop-down list in red will appear at the top of the Comments folder listing which defaults to “Own Tasks” meaning that the listed document tasks have been assigned to the current logged on user. When “On behalf of” is selected then the listed document tasks are those assigned to other users. So from there a document in the Comments status can be sent for approval or checked out “On behalf of” the user who sent the document for Comment in the first place.

            ▪ Approval folder
When a document is listed in this folder you are required to review and either Approve it or
Reject it. The reasons for a document being listed here are:
                • Approval: The document is going through the versioning workflow process and needs to be approved so that it may be published in its intended folder.
                • Change Request: A change request has been issued on a document and needs to be reviewed and approved by the document’s approvers before being checked out and the required changes made to it.
                • Review: A request to review the document for relevance is issued to the users who have Write access to the document. If Needs Changing is selected, then a Change Request has to be immediately issued on the document. If Does NOT need Changing is selected, then the document does not require any changes, it is assigned a new Review date based on what has been selected on its Approval type and it is removed from the Approval folder.

When in Set-Up > Rules > Super Admins can override approvals, is activated then only for Super Admins, a drop-down list in red will appear at the top of the Approval folder listing which defaults to “Own Tasks” meaning that the listed document tasks have been assigned to the current logged on user. When “On behalf of” is selected then the listed document tasks are those assigned to other users. In the event that the relevant approval sequence is non- sequential then the “On behalf of” approver will have to be selected if there is more than one and if the relevant approval sequence is sequential then the “On behalf of” user is automatically displayed. For an approval as well as for a rejection a comment will be required when using the “On behalf of” approval.
            ▪ Check Out folder
Documents listed here need to be checked out and modified. There are listed for the following reasons:
                • Approved Change Request: A Change Request has been approved by all the required approvers and is now listed in the Check Out folder of all users with Write access to the document.
                • Rejected Document: This is a document that went through the approval process and was rejected by an approver. The rejected document can be Deleted and remove from Workflow, Deleted and Checked Out or Kept and Checked Out.
In both instances once checked out the document is removed from all Write users’ Check Out folder and only moved to the Check In folder of the user who checked it out.

When in Set-Up > Rules > Super Admins can override approvals, is activated then only for Super Admins, a drop-down list in red will appear at the top of the Check In folder listing which defaults to “Own Tasks” meaning that the listed document Check Out tasks have been assigned to the current logged on user. When “On behalf of” is selected then the listed document Check Out tasks are those assigned to other users. If there are more than one (1) Write access user then the “On behalf of” user will have to be selected otherwise with only one (1) Write access user then the “On behalf of” user is automatically displayed.
            ▪ Check In folder
Documents listed here have been checked out by the logged in user and need to be checked back in after the required modifications have been made to them. The status of documents listed in this folder are as follows:
                • Comment: The document has been changed to reflect Comments that were made about it. The document is checked in with exactly the same version number as it was checked out. This is because the commenting process is a way of getting feedback on a document and does not lead to publishing unless it is sent to approval.
                • Versioning: The document has been checked-out due to a required change from a previously published version, the Upload New Version button has been clicked or a previous Archived version has been restored. A new version will be assigned, except for a Rejected document that has been deleted, and the new version choice is either a Major version (e.g. version number 1.12 to 2.00) or a Minor version (e.g. version number 1.12 to 1.13)

Once checked-in the documents can either be Sent for Comment, Sent for Approval or
Save and are removed from the Check In folder listing.

When in Set-Up > Rules > Super Admins can override approvals, is activated then only for Super Admins, a drop-down list in red will appear at the top of the Check Out folder listing which defaults to “Own Tasks” meaning that the listed document Check In tasks have been assigned to the current logged on user. When “On behalf of” is selected then the listed Check In document tasks are those assigned to other users.

            ▪ Templates
These are controlled and versioned documents that are available to all your users and have been added and version controlled in Set-Up > Templates. These documents would normally be blank templates which your users, for example, can use to create new procedures. These can be downloaded by any user.

            ▪ Favorites
Each user can place documents that they want easy access to in their Favorites folder. These documents are unique to them and maintain all their permissions that they have from their source folder. In fact, they have not been moved from their source folder but rather a form of link to the original document is placed in the Favorites folder. Documents can be added to the Favorites folder by a user by opening the Properties page of a document and in the Options drop down list at the top right select Add to Favorites.

A global change to the name of the Favorites folder can be done in Set-Up > Fields > Fixed Fields by the Super Admins.
        4.4 Document Folders
            ▪ Document Folders Role and Types
Document Folders are groupings of documents to which both user groups and individual users are given access to. They form the venue for the distribution of documents in isoTracker. Folders are displayed on a user’s Treeview only if that user has Read or Write access rights to that folder.


isoTracker will accept two or more folders with a similar name as long as they are at different levels. So you can’t create two root folders with the similar name but you can have a root folder and a child folder under it with the same name.

Folders are listed in an alphanumerical order and can be moved using the drag and drop feature in and out of a child position to another folder. The ability to move the position of folders in the Treeview is only available to the Super Admins and users with Add Folders activated on the Permissions page. To move a folder from a child to a root position, click and drag it slightly to the left and then drop it. A secondary confirmation pop-up will appear and when the OK button is clicked the folder will be moved. If the folder is moved to the same level of a folder with the same name, the pop-up will have the words The folder will have a number added to it as there is a folder with the same name at the destination, click on OK to confirm the move and have the number added to it or Cancel to leave it in its current location. It is important to note that as a folder is dragged into a child position under another folder it will assimilate the PDF settings, the Read access and the Write access rules of the new parent folder.
            ▪ Creating New Folders
The Super Admins plus users who have Add Folders selected on their Permissions can create, copy, edit and delete folders.

Click on the New Folder tab at the top in the Document Control module. The page has two tabs with the Add Groups tab being the default on which user groups are assigned to the newly created folder. The following information is required:
                • Folder Level: Use this drop down list to select the location of the folder. It can be at Root Level, so at top level which is the default, or below any other folder on the list.
                • Folder name: Assign a name to the folder which cannot have the same name as another folder at the same level. Also note that the characters /:\*?"<>|[] will not be permitted.
                • Convert to PDF: Select Yes and all documents in the folder, old and new, will be converted to PDF format and the document’s properties will be listed in accordance with the settings in Set-Up > PDF Settings. The default setting is No. The conversion process is scheduled to run every 5 minutes from the moment the document is published.
                • PDF Watermark: When the Convert to PDF feature is activated, a watermark can be added to the document when it is printed out. The default wording is set in the Set-Up > PDF Settings but this can be changed including removed if a watermark is not required on this specific folder.
                • Read Access: This identifies which user groups will only be able to view the folder and the documents held in it. The default Read Access is to the Everyone group. This can be changed by removing Everyone from the right-hand box by highlighting it and clicking on the left facing pointing arrow above and replacing it with one or more groups on the left by highlighting them and then clicking on the right pointing arrow above. The members of the selected group can be seen by hovering over the group.
                • Write Access: This identifies which users will be able to add documents to the folder and to manage document properties. Note that for this access right to be activated the user must at least have Add Docs selected, in order to Check Out/Check In documents, on their Permissions page, and as an addition, also be an Admin, in order to fully manage documents. The default Write Access group is Admin and this
can be changed as described earlier. Note that users with Write access should be displayed in red when the selected group is hovered over.
The Add Users tab can also be used to create a folder but its main role is to assign individual users that are not part of user groups already assigned Read or Write access to the folder. So in the Read left hand box will only be listed users that are not part of user groups that already have been assigned Read access. On the Write access left hand box will be listed users who are in red, so either have the permissions of Add Docs or Add Docs plus Admin on the Permissions page and are not part of user groups already assigned Write access. Individual users are selected by highlighting them in the respective left-hand box and transferring them over to its right-hand box using the right pointing arrow above. When individual users have been given access rights to a folder they will be listed when the Add Groups tab is opened but will be greyed out and can only be removed from the Add Users tab. A folder can be created with only individual users having Read and Write access.

Click on the Submit button after entering all the information required for creating a folder.


            ▪ Opening Folders
Click on the folder heading in the Treeview and the contents of the folder will be displayed. This is effectively a listing of all the documents held in the folder with the following default columns:
                • Name: This is the document’s name and version number. By clicking on the name, the document will open in its native application. If there is an eye icon next to the document name, then this is the viewer which is activated in Set-Up > Rules selecting Activate document viewer for all Read access users and the document is opened as a PDF in a separate browser tab. It is always the latest approved version of a document that is opened. A red N may also appear if an updated version is currently going through the approval workflow process. A red C will also appear if the document is going through the comment workflow process.
                • Number: If the default field of Number is used then it will display it here. Otherwise, it will list the field at the top of the list in Set-Up > Fields > New Fields.
                • Owner: This is the name of the user who imported the initial version of the document or as edited using the Edit Properties page to a user with Write access to the document. Other than that the Owner in isoTracker has no role.
                • Types: This is the Approval Type that is assigned to the document and which will determine the approval workflow rules that the document must follow. This will include the Change Types if in Set-Up > Rules the option of Activate different Change Request approvers to Document approvers is activated.
                • Date: This is the date and time at which the latest version was published.
                • Action: The following icons can be identified by moving the cursor over them:
                    ◦ Properties: Click on the icon to open the document’s properties page.
                    ◦ Reference Documents: Lists linked documents and open them by clicking on the relevant link.
                    ◦ Lock: If the document is going through workflow, such as change request, Check Out, approval, comment, etc.…, a padlock will appear. This means that this document is locked and cannot be checked out until the new version is published or the workflow stages are cancelled. Hover over the padlock to see the status of the document and the date that it entered that status.
                    ◦ Circular Arrows: This indicates that the document is in the process of being converted to a PDF and will disappear when the process has been completed. If it
does not disappear then you should contact your isoTracker representative to have that issue fixed.
                    ◦ OK: If in Set-Up > Rules the Activate a Read confirmation button has been turned on then a green blinking OK button will appear as soon as a new version is published for users only with Read access. The OK button also appears on the top right of the document’s properties object. Both of a document’s buttons will disappear for a specific user only after they have clicked on it and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. The History will record that the relevant user has confirmed that they have read and understood the document.

The displayed columns and their position can be changed in Set-Up > Document Listing. Other fields can also be added.
            ▪ Editing folders
Click on the Folder Properties tab at the top when the folder is opened which is only available to users with Add Folders in their Permissions. Modifications can be made to the Folder name, as long as it is not already the same as that of another folder located at the same level, and to Read and Write Access by simply clicking on a different user group.

Note that if Yes has been selected in the Convert to PDF feature this can be switched off by selecting No. Conversely, the Convert to PDF feature can be activated by selecting Yes from the drop-down list, then you can keep, edit or remove the default watermark words that appear below the Convert to PDF feature.
If the folder has child folders below it, then at the bottom just above the Submit button the Copy Changes to All Sub-Folders. This defaults to No which means that the changes to the folder will not cascade to its child folders. If Yes is selected, then all the child folders of the folder being edited will take the changed properties whether they had the same properties or not before.

Confirm the changes by clicking on the Submit button. If Convert to PDF has been selected, then the conversion process is scheduled to run at 5-minute intervals. If Convert to PDF was already activated and only the watermark was changed then the watermark will be converted at midnight account time. Changes to the Folder name or to the Read and/or Write Access will appear immediately.

            ▪ Moving Folders
Folders can be moved from one location to any other location including under another folder and vice versa by ANY user who has Add Folders activated on their Manage Users page. To move the folder, simply click on it and then drag it to the desired location. A secondary confirmation pop-up will appear and when OK is clicked the folder will be moved to its new location. Folders can be moved to a child position under another folder. Any folder being moved to a child position to another folder inherits the new parent folder’s PDF, Read and Write access settings. A Folder can be moved out of a child position into a root position by dragging it slightly to the left and then dropping it. A warning message will be displayed if a folder is moved to the equivalent level of a folder with the same name with the words “The folder will have a number added to it as there is a folder with the same name at the destination”. If OK is clicked the folder will be moved and have a number, such as (01), added at the end of the name. If Cancel is clicked the move will not take place.

The properties of a Folder can still be edited after it has been moved using the Folder Properties feature.
            ▪ Copy folder
A folder, and its sub-folders, can be copied to any position either at root level or under another folder only by the Super Admins and users who have Add Folders activated in their Permissions page. Open the folder structure that you want copied, click on the Copy Folder tab at the top, in the pop-up select Root Level Folder or any other folder on that list and click on Submit. A copy of the selected folder structure with then be placed in the selected position without any the documents of the folder that was copied over but maintaining the properties. If
there is already a folder at that level with the same name of the copied parent folder then the words (Copied 01, Copied 02, etc.) will be added after it. The name of the copied folder can be changed at any time using the edit features in Folder Properties.
            ▪ Deleting folders
A folder can be deleted only by a user who has Add Folders activated in their Permissions page AND when the folder does not contain any documents or has documents in workflow intended for that folder but not yet listed. Click on the Delete Folder tab in the toolbar from the opened folder and then on the OK button in the pop-up to complete the deletion.
If the folder to be deleted contains documents, then either move them to another folder or delete them before attempting to delete the folder. Note that a folder cannot be deleted if there are new documents in the Approval or Comments process that will be published in that folder once they are approved.


            ▪ Search Folder
There is a Search Folder box at the top of the folder Treeview that will search for folders with that the search word. Type in the name of the folder that you want searched for and the Treeview will reduce to listing in yellow all the folders with that search name. You can open and work on the listed folders as you would normally do on the full folder Treeview listing. To display the full folder Treeview listing clear the search terms in the Search Folder box.
        4.5 Importing Documents
Approval Types and Folders MUST be created before importing any documents as they are used to determine a document’s workflow parameters.

            ▪ Documents in isoTracker
IsoTracker will recognize any document written in Microsoft Office, Libre Office, PDF, HTML as well as many other formats.

The naming of documents is similar to Microsoft Windows in that documents can have similar names as long as they are not in the same folder.
            ▪ Document access rights
All documents are held in folders and a document’s access rights are governed by the User Groups, and individual users, who provide Read and Write access rights to the folder it is held in.

            ▪ Uploading individual documents
To upload a document, click on the New Document tab at the top. The Individual Upload tab will open by default, then select the Folder the document should be held in from the drop- down list on the left, select the Owner of the document if different from the user doing the upload and then select the Approval from the drop-down list on the right. Click on the ? icon above the selected Folder to list its Read and Write access groups and users. Click on the ? icon above the selected Approval to display its properties, being whether it is Sequential or not with the number of Required Approvals next to it, the activated attributes such as Required Review and the list of its Approvers in the order that they are listed in the Approval and below it the Additional Approver if there is one.

If in Set-Up > Rules > Activate different Change Request approvers to Document approvers has been activated, then the Changes drop down list will appear on the right of the Approval drop down list. When an option has been selected from the Approval drop down list the same will appear on the Changes drop down list, by default, if what is selected in Approval has the Use of Both. Otherwise, the Changes drop down list will remain at Select
and an option will have to be selected for the document to be uploaded. A different option can be selected in the Changes drop down list.


You must enter some or all of the following further information:
    • Attach Document: Click on the Choose file button on the left of the field box to identify on your desktop the document that you want to import. Alternatively, you may drag and drop the document from your desktop.
    • Name: The name of the document is automatically generated from its file name. The name can be changed but the characters /:\*?"<>|[] will not be permitted. In any case the file name of the document uploaded into isoTracker will be changed to the name assigned in this field. This is a searchable field. Note that names that are longer than 100 characters and spaces will be truncated.
    • PDF: If the folder has Convert to PDF activated, then on the right of the Name box is a check box that is selected. Uncheck it if you don’t want that document to be converted to a PDF. A change in this setting will not affect other documents in that folder.
    • Version: The default setting on document import is version 1.00 but this can be reset by selecting a different Major or Minor version number from the two drop down lists.
    • Keywords: Keywords that have been created and listed in Set-Up > Keywords can be searched for here by entering a word string and having the results listed below the Keyword box. Additional keywords can also be entered here. These keywords will help to speed the search of the document.
    • Document fields: Displayed here will be up to ten (10) fields with the titles, followed by a red asterisk if mandatory and in the order as created in the Set-Up section. These are searchable fields.
    • Search & Select Reference Documents: This feature narrows down the list of documents to select as Reference Documents. Enter a word string in the Filter box on the left and the documents listed below will be narrowed to those with that word string. Reference Documents are controlled documents internal to isoTracker and up to twenty
(20) of these documents can be attached to the document being uploaded. Selected documents need to be highlighted in the left-hand box and transferred over to the right- hand box using the right pointing arrows.
    • Reference URL: This is a link to a website outside of isoTracker as used as a Reference. Copy and paste the relevant URL here.
    • Support Documents: These are external non-controlled documents that can be attached to the document being imported. These documents are then listed in the Notes object once the document is uploaded and will remain through the next versioning process unless deleted or replaced during the Check In process or using the Edit Properties feature. There is no limit to the number of documents that can be selected.
Based on the selected Approval assigned for the document import the following fields will appear below:
    • Effective Date: Appears only if an active field on the Approval Type. This is the date that the document will be published after it has been approved. The default date is immediate but it can be modified using the calendar feature. If you want the document to be published immediately upon approval, then leave this field blank.
    • Expiry Date: Appears only if an active field on the Approval Type. This is the date that the document will be deleted from the folder and moved to Set-Up > Deleted Documents. The default setting is blank but a date can be assigned from the calendar feature. If you want the document never to expire, or for you to delete it manually, then leave this field blank.
    • Review date: Appears only if an active field on the Approval Type. This is the date on which the users with Write access to the document are informed that the document must be checked for relevance. The review delay is pre-set on the Approval Type and can be either 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24 or 36 months from the date the document is uploaded.
    • Reminder: Appears only if an active field on the Approval Type. This activates up to five (5) Reminder emails to the Approvers at fixed intervals with the interval being pre-
set on the Approval Type and can be either 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 31 or 30 days from the moment the approver has been notified until they have either approved or rejected the document. If selected the default setting is Yes which activates the reminders. If No is selected, then the Approvers will only receive the initial Required Approval notification and no reminders.


If you want to import additional documents on this page, click on the + sign on the left of Add More Documents at the bottom of the upload page. You can import up to 5 separate documents from this page which will all be imported into the same Folder and use the same Approval and Changes rules.

There are then 3 different next steps to upload the documents as follows:
    • Send for Approval: This uploads the documents and immediately sends them into the Approval workflow as identified by the selected Approval Type.
    • Send for Comments: This is only available if a single document is imported on this page. After the Send for Comments button is clicked a pop-up will appear on which is required the identification of the users the request for comment should be sent to. Enter a message on the comment box and click on Submit. The document will not be published but the identified users will be requested to review and comment on the document. Documents can be sent for Approval after they are sent for Comment. This button gets deactivated if two (2) or more documents are uploaded on this page.
    • Save: Uploads the documents and holds them in the Comment listing folder with the status of Unassigned. From there they can be Sent for Approval or Sent for Comments.
Remember, that large documents can take time to import and the import process can also be interrupted by a slow internet as well as minor connection cuts.

If the Approval type has no approvers, then the Send for Approval button will be replaced by a Publish button and when clicked and the document will be uploaded and published immediately in its intended folder.
    • Importing documents in bulk
Select the Bulk Upload tab, then the Folder, the Owner, the Approval type and the Changes type if that has been activated. Click on the ? above the selected Folder to list its Read and Write access groups and users. Click on the ? icon above the selected Approval type and on the right of the selected Changes type, if activated to display their properties. The properties for Approval will show whether it is Sequential or not with the number of Required Approvals next to it, the activated attributes such as Required Review followed by the review interval in months, the list of its Approvers in the order that they are listed in the Approval type and any Additional Approver. The properties for Changes will show whether it is Sequential or not with the number of Required Approvals next to it, the list of its Approvers in the order that they are listed in the Changes type and any Additional Approver.

Click on Click to Upload, browse for the files and select them. Alternatively, you may drag and drop the documents from your desktop onto the Click to Upload area. You can select keywords that are used across all the documents, also if any of the document fields are mandatory they will be displayed here and must be either selected or have data entered in them, finally select a version number for all the documents if different from the default 1.00 then click either on the Send for Approval or the Save buttons to activate the upload. The Send for Comments button is not available for bulk uploads but these can be individually Sent for Comments after clicking on Save and then going to the Comments folder and individually sending each document for comment.
Document specific information and keywords can be added later on when the document has been published from their respective Edit Properties section.

If Automatic Numbering is a required field, then the system will assign a different incremental number to each of the documents.
If you are experiencing problems using this feature it may be that the documents are much too large. If this occurs reduce the number of documents being uploaded at one time.
    • Viewing a document
Clicking on a folder heading in the Treeview will list the documents held in that folder then click on the document’s name under the Name headed column. This opens up the document in its native application or as a PDF, if Convert to PDF has been activated in that document’s folder’s properties. If in Set-Up > Rules > Activate document viewer for all Read access users has been activated then for Read only users the document’s name will be deactivated and there will be an Eye icon next to it. On clicking the Eye icon will open the document in Viewer in separate browser tab.

        4.6 Commenting (or Providing Feedback) on Documents
There is the ability to Provide Feedback on a document before it is sent into the Approval workflow. This is done by either clicking the Save or the Send for Comments buttons when a document is first uploaded or when a new version of the document is checked in.
            ▪ Using the Save button
By clicking on the Save button, the document is simply imported into isoTracker. It is listed as Unassigned on the comment listing page which is accessible from the Comments folder under Activities in the Treeview. From this list the document may be Sent for Comments or Sent for Approval by clicking on the relevant icons under the Action column heading.
            ▪ Send for Comments
After clicking on the Send for Comments button a pop-up box appears on which you are required to identify which users you wish to solicit comments from.

The Select Members box on the left will list all users in isoTracker. Note that users in blue have Write access to the document and users in red are Approvers of the document. If you have External Users in the system, they are listed in green here. Select the users you wish to send a request for comment to by moving them over to the right-hand box. Enter some words of instruction in the Comment box and either keep the Reminder drop down list to the default Yes, or change it to No and then click on the Submit button. As soon as the request for comment is confirmed the status of the comment changes to In Review and at this stage onwards the document can be checked out for modification outside of the versioning process. The Reminder drop down list with Yes selected will activate reminder emails to the selected users at the interval in the Approval type until the earlier of a maximum of five (5) reminders or the relevant user responding to the request for comment.

            ▪ Notification of request for comment
The request for comments is notified to the selected users all at the same time, irrespective of whether the document’s Approval type is sequential or non-sequential. The selected users are informed on their Dashboard page under the document’s tab with a notification titled Pre- Approval Comment. The document is also listed on each notified user’s Comments folder under Activities. By clicking on the Comment icon under the Action column the document’s properties page is opened at the level of the Comments tab. The message from the sending user can be viewed and the document can be opened by clicking on the document’s name, above is the comment reply box and a document upload feature. Enter the reply to the request for comment in the comment box, attach a document if you need to and then click on Submit. Additional replies with attached documents can be sent by the users that are requested to comment until the document is checked out or sent for approval by the user who
initiated the request. Each attached document is given a draft number starting from draft A and incrementing from there to B, C, D, and so on.
            ▪ Replying to a request for comment
After replying to a request for comment the user who initiated the request for comment receives a Comment Received notification on their Dashboard and by email. When all the users who were assigned a request to comment have replied then the notification will be Comments Completed to the initiator of the request for comment. The receiving users can still send replies and attach documents, so the Comments Completed status does not mean that the process is over. The process is over when the document is set for approval or checked out.

At any stage during the comment process the document can be Checked Out by the user who initiated the comment alternatively it can be sent for Approval. As there can be more than a single document each with their own draft letter starting with “A” for the initial document and incrementing from there each time a replying user attaches a document to their reply, there will be a Check Out and Send for Approval buttons below each of the draft documents.

In order to Check Out click on the Properties icon under the Action column of the relevant document listed on the Comments folder. On the next page click again on the Check Out button at the bottom of the relevant reply with a draft document which can be the initial request for comment or any reply that has a draft document attached to it. Once checked out a Comment Check In notification is sent to the user who checked out the document, by email, on their Dashboard and in the Activities > Check In folder where it is listed in the Status of Comment. The only difference between a Comment Check In and a normal Check In is that with the Comment Check In the document DOES NOT change version number from the version it was checked out with. From the Check In process the document can be sent into approval by clicking on the Send for Approval button, it can also be sent for comment again by clicking on the Send for Comments button.


In order to send a document for approval during the comment process click on the Properties icon under the Action column of the relevant document listed on the Comment folder, then click on the Send for Approval button below either the initial request for comment with draft A of the document or any reply with a draft B or above of the document. . The document’s approvers will then receive a Required Approval notification for the selected draft version of the document, with no indication of which draft it is, in the sequence of the Approval type and the Comment process will be terminated.

When an updated version of a document is sent for comment a red C will appear next to the document’s name when the folder it is held in is opened. The purpose of the C is to inform users that the document is going through the commenting process and that a new version of the document is likely to be issued soon.

        4.7 Reviewing and Approving Documents
            ▪ Review
The approval criterion of a document is governed by the Approval type it was assigned to. This will identify which users will be notified, whether the notifications are Sequential or Non- Sequential, and how many approvals are required. Note that an Approver is not required to have either Read or Write access to the intended Folder of the document they are approving; however, they will be able to view the document during the approval process.

Approvers will be notified at the same time if the Approval type notifications are Non- Sequential. On the other hand, if they are Sequential then the Approver at the top of the list will only be notified and the second Approver does not get notified until the first Approver has approved the document and so on for the other approvers going down the list. The
notifications are listed on the Dashboard as Required Approval under the Document tab, in the Approval folder under Activities and also by email.
Click on Required Approval and then on the document name on the Dashboard, or on the Properties icon of the relevant document in the Approval folder. This takes you to the opened Change Request/Approval tab, where you can view the document requiring approval by clicking on the name of the document at the top of the tab. The task can be accessed by clicking on the link in the email, the user will then be required to login to their isoTracker account before they are taken to the Approval page. If there are any notes relating to the document, Reference or Support Documents then these will be listed on the Notes tab where the view icon will be the color maroon.

When an updated version of a document is checked in a red N will appear next to the document’s name when the folder it is held in is opened. The purpose of the N is to inform users that a new version has been checked in, that it is going through the approval process and that its issue is therefore imminent.

            ▪ Approval
The process of approving a document is performed in the Change Request/Approval tab which is opened when the page is accessed from the Approval folder, by clicking on the Required Approval notification on the Dashboard or from the email. The new version of the document going through approval is listed at the top of the Change Request/Approval tab, which can be viewed by clicking on the link, followed by the key details of the Approval type and the list of Approvers. Choose your decision by selecting Approve from the Your Decision drop down list. Then click on the Submit button. The document will now drop out from your Approval folder.
If the Approval type is Sequential and there are other approvers, then the next one in line will be notified. When they approve the document, the subsequent approver will be notified in turn. This process will continue until the number of Required Approvals, as identified in the relevant Approval type, have been achieved.
If, on the other hand, the Approval Type is Non-Sequential then all the approvers are notified at the same time and their notifications are active until either they have approved the document or the required number of approvers have approved the document or an approver has rejected the document.

Upon approval by the number of required approvers, as identified in the Approval Type, the document is immediately published and replaces any prior versions. Users with Read and Write access to the document will be informed that a new version is available from the listing of Approved Documents that appears under the Documents tab on the Dashboard.

A consolidated email listing the documents that have been published will be sent to users with Read and/or Write access to those newly published documents once a day and normally at the end of the day at midnight.

            ▪ Rejection
To reject a document, choose Reject from the Your Decision drop down list and remember to enter a reason for the rejection. Then click on the Submit button.


If the Approval type is Sequential then the document will be rejected and the other approvers will not be notified. If the Approval Type is Non-Sequential and an approver has rejected the document, then the remaining approvers will no longer be required to review and approve the document and will have their respective notifications removed.
A rejected document will be notified to the users with Write access as a Rejected Document under the Documents tab on the Dashboard. It will also be listed on the same users’ Check Out folder under Activities. Click on the Rejected Documents link and then click on the
document’s name to access the properties page. The user rejecting the document and their reasons for the rejection will be highlighted in red in the Approval object. They will also receive a Rejected Document email notification.
Once rejected the Write users of a document can check-it out by clicking on either the Check Out & Delete Rejected Doc button or the Check Out & Keep Rejected Doc button.
Alternatively, they can terminate the process by clicking on the Delete Rejected Document & Exit Workflow button. All the buttons are located at the top of the Change Request/Approval tab. The processes followed by each of these buttons is as follows:
    • Check Out & Delete Rejected Doc: This checks out the document, deletes the rejected version of the document from the system and keeps the same version number for the next version of the uploaded document.
    • Check Out & Keep Rejected Doc: This checks out the document, keeps the rejected version of the document which will be accessible in the Archives tab and increments to the next version number, next major or next minor, for the next version of the uploaded document.
    • Delete Rejected Document & Exit Workflow: This deletes the rejected document from the system and takes the document out of workflow. So effectively putting the document back to the at rest stage.
The approvers of a document that has been rejected will also be informed of that rejection by email with the reason for that rejection but not by notification on their Dashboard.


            ▪ Additional Approver
An Additional Approver, who is not a User or an External user, will have a Required Approval email sent to them with a link to the Approval page. When they click on that link the Approval page will open in a browser tab and will display the new version they are required to review and also who has approved it with any of their comments. On the Your Decision drop down list select Approve to approve the document or Reject, with a comment, to reject the document.

If electronic signatures have been activated then the Additional Approver will receive two (2) emails, the first one with their Username and the second one with a special code that they should use as a Password.

        4.8 Viewing Documents
            ▪ Listing documents
In order to list documents, click on the folder, in the Treeview, that the documents are held in which will list all the documents in that folder. The documents in that folder will be listed in alphanumerical order on the basis of their Name unless changed in Set-Up > Document Listing, in a tabular format. The default displayed columns are:
                • Name: The name and version number of the document. There are also additional icons that may appear as follows:
    • N: this is to indicate that a new version of the document is currently going through the approval process.
    • C: this is to indicate that a new version of the document is going through the commenting process.
    • Eye: this is a document viewer and when clicked will open the document as a PDF in another browser tab. This appears when Activate document viewer for all Read access users has been activated in Set-Up > Rules.
    • Key: this indicates that the document is password protected and so cannot be converted to a PDF.
    • Question mark: this indicates that the document cannot be converted to a PDF.
                • Folder Path: This will list the folder path of the folder that the document is in. This is displayed as “Root Folder >…> Immediate Parent folder > Folder”.
                • Number: If you are not using a numbering system then this column will take the title that you will have assigned to the first, in location order, of the New Fields you created in Set-Up. If you did not create one, then that column will not be present.
                • Owner: This is the name of the user who imported the initial version of the document and which can be edited to another user with Write access in that document’s Properties.
                • Approval: This is the Approval type that is assigned to the document and which will determine the approval workflow rules that the document must follow
                • Date: This is the date and time that the latest version of the document was published
                • Action: There are up to 4 icons in this section which provide the following:
    • Properties: click on this icon to access the document’s properties. The functions available in the properties section will depend on the access rights assigned to the user for the document in question.
    • Chain link: This will list up to twenty (20) documents that have been assigned as providing reference to the listed document. These documents may be located in any folder and can be opened by clicking on their name that appears in the tool tip.
    • Lock: The padlock icon will appear here as soon as the document has been sent on a workflow process. This means that it cannot be checked out again and it cannot be deleted, moved, copied or have a change request issued against it until the workflow process is completed. When hovered over the padlock the workflow status and the date & time that the document was sent into workflow will appear in a tool tip.
    • Circular Arrows: This indicates that the document is being converted to PDF and will disappear when the process has been completed.
                    ◦ OK: If Activate Read confirmation button has been activated in Set-Up > Rules, then a green blinking OK button will appear as soon as a new version is published for all users with Read access. The OK button also appears on the top right of the document’s properties object. Both the document’s buttons will disappear for a specific user only after they have clicked on it and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. The History will record that the relevant user has confirmed that they have read and understood the document.
            ▪ Opening a document
In order to view a document, click on the relevant document’s name, in the document listing when a folder is open or at the top of the document’s properties, and the document will open, and effectively be downloaded, in its native application or as a PDF. It will open as a PDF if Convert to PDF has been activated in the folder where the document is listed.
If Activate document viewer for all Read access users has been selected in Set-Up > Rules, then the following will happen:
                • For Read only users: The document name will be deactivated in both the document listing and the properties page so when it is clicked on nothing will happen. An Eye icon will appear after the name and when clicked on the document will open in view format in a separate browser tab as a PDF which cannot be downloaded. If then Activate document download is selected in Set-Up > Rules, then the document can be downloaded from the viewer.
                • For Write users: The document name can still be clicked on and be downloaded. There will also be an Eye icon which can be clicked and the document will open in view format in a separate browser tab and it can be downloaded from the viewer.
        4.9 Document Properties
When the properties page of a document is opened by clicking on the Properties icon under the Action column the following will appear:
            ▪ Document name: This is at the top of the page and is followed by the version number of the document and when clicked will open the document. The exception will be for Read only users when Activate document viewer for all Read access users has been activated in Set-Up > Rules and the link gets deactivated and the only way that Read only users can open the document is to click on the Eye icon that appears after the document name.
            ▪ Options: This is a drop down list from which the following options are available and explained in the next section of Managing Documents:
    • Copy: Only available to users with Admin on their Permissions and Write access to the document.
    • Move: Only available to users with Admin on their Permissions and Write access to the document.
    • Add to Favorites: this is available for all users.
    • Delete: Only available to users with Admin on their Permissions and Write access to the document.
    • Retain: Only available to users with Admin on their Permissions and Write access to the document.
    • Email: Available by default only to the Super Admins but which can be extended to Write and Read users in Set-Up > Rules > Activate emailing of documents by.
            ▪ Properties: This section is immediately below the Document name and, is by default minimized but can be maximized by clicking on the + icon at the top right, lists all the key elements of that document as follows:
    • Minimized: On column 1 from the left, the Number of the of the document or alternatively the top of the fields in Set-Up > New Fields and the Format below it. On column 2 the Owner and the Approval type below it. On column 3, the Created On date followed by the Modified On date. On column 4, the Review Date.
    • Maximized: On column 1 the Fields as listed in Set-Up > New Fields with Format at the bottom. On column 2 the Owner, Approval type, Changes type and the Keywords. On column 3 the Created On date, Created By name, the Modified On date and the Modified By name at the bottom. On column 4 the Review Date, the Effective Date and the Expiry Date.
If you have Write access to the document and you have Admin and Add Docs, then an Edit icon will be present on the top right and by clicking on it the properties of that document can be modified.
            ▪ History/Archive: This is the default tab when the Properties of the document opens. There are a further three (3) tabs as follows:
    • History: This tab, which is available to all users with access to the document, lists all events that have happened to the document when that event was performed and by whom that event was performed.
    • Archive: This tab, which is only available to users with Write access to the document and Add Docs activated on the Permissions page, lists all prior versions of the document, whether published or not, as well as the current published version. From this tab, the prior versions can be opened in their native format by clicking on the title. In addition, prior versions can be restored as a new version by clicking on the Restore icon.
    • Comments: This tab appears only if the document is in the Comments workflow process and will appear for users with Write access to the document and the users who have been requested to submit a comment about the document. This tab remains listed until the document is approved and published.
            ▪ Check Out/Check In: On this tab, a Check Out button and an Upload New Version button appear only for users with Write access to the document and who have Add Docs activated on the Permissions page. Click on the Check Out button to Check Out the document. Click on the Upload New Version to effectively Check In a new
version without having to check it out first. This tab is also used to Check In a document that the relevant user has first checked-out.
            ▪ Change Request/Approval: From this tab, any user with either Read or Write access, can submit a change request for this document. The approval of the change request is also performed, by the approvers, on this tab as well as the process of checking-out the document after the change request has been approved by the users with Write access to the document. In addition, this is where approvers of a document can perform their approval task and the Write users can see who has approved the document and who still needs to approve the document. In addition, the details of the rejection of the document are listed here when a revised version is checked-in and sent into the approval workflow.
            ▪ Notes: On this tab, any user with access to the document can add notes to it which are viewable by other users with access rights. Notes can be deleted only by users with Write access. In addition, Reference To (Reference Documents selected on this document), Reference From (this document being referenced by other documents) and Support Documents associated with this document are listed here and can be opened by clicking on their relevant link.

        4.10 Managing Documents
            ▪ Modifying a document
The right to modify a document is only available to users with Write access rights to that document and who have Add Docs and Admin selected on the Permissions page.

To start the process of modifying a document, click on the folder heading in the Treeview that the document is held to list the document. You then need to open the document’s properties by clicking on the Properties icon under the Action column.
The following modification features are available and can be accessed by clicking on the relevant icons or buttons:
                • Edit Properties: The Edit icon is located on the top right of the Properties. Use this function to change the approval and changes type, the owner, the name of the document, keywords and other fields, reference and support documents, issue date, expiry date, review date and reminder. The version number cannot be changed. Note that this feature is not available if the document is in a workflow process.
                • Check Out/Check In: Open the Check Out/Check In tab and then click on the Check Out button to download the document onto your desktop and initiate the process of creating a new version. A document cannot be checked out if it is already checked out, is going through approval, has an outstanding change request that has not yet been approved or is in Review. When the document has been checked out the Cancel Check Out button is displayed at the top of the object. Also when a document has been checked out the View icon turns maroon and when clicked will open the Check In features which are only available to the user who checked out the document. If you don’t want to check out the document before checking it in, then use the Upload New Version button which will take you directly to the Check In page.
                • Change Request: Open the Change Request/Approval tab to initiate a change request for the specific document. A document cannot have a second change request issued against it until the original one has either completed its workflow process or has been rejected.

            ▪ Copying a Document
You need to have Write access to both folders to copy a to copy a document from one folder to another. Open the document’s properties page, then:
                • Select Copy from the Options drop down list at the top right.
                • Select the folder that you want the document copied to from the pop-up.
                • Click on the OK button to confirm the copy of the document.
                • Note that the document will now be listed in the new folder with the word (Copied) after its name and will also remain listed as well as in its current folder.
The copied document is a mirror image of the original document and will always follow its workflow steps and version number. In addition, workflow steps, such as Change Request or Check Out, can only be initiated on the original document and not on any of its copied versions. A copied document can however be deleted without affecting the original document.

When the original version of a copied document is deleted, all its copied versions will also be deleted. When the original version is then restored from the Deleted Documents feature all the copied versions will also be restored to their folders of origin. Note however, that if the original version is restored to a different folder that had a copied version, then only the original version, and not the copied version, will be restored to that different folder.

A document going through workflow cannot be copied.

            ▪ Moving a Document
You need to have Write access to both folders to move a document from one folder to another. A quick way is to open the folder that the document is listed in and drag and drop it to the new folder in the folder Treeview on the left. If this does not work then open the document’s properties page, then:
                • Select Move from the Options drop down list at the top right.
                • Select the folder you want the document moved to from the pop-up.
                • Click on the OK button to confirm the move.
                • The document will now be listed in the new folder and no longer appear in its prior folder.

The process of moving a document to another folder will change who its Owner is unless the original owner has Write access to both folders. If they do not have Write access and are not one of the Super Admins, then a new Owner will be automatically selected from the Write access of that document. The Owner can be changed using the Edit Properties feature to another user who also has Write access.

            ▪ Add to Favorites
Each user can place a copy of document that they have Read or Write access to into the Favorites folder where they can have quick access to it. To add it open the document’s properties page then:
                • Select Add to Favorites from the Options drop down list on the top right.
                • Click on the OK button of the secondary confirmation pop-up box.
                • A copy of the document is now listed in the Favorites folder where the permissions on that document for the logged in user will be exactly the same as from its actual folder.
                • A document can be removed from the Favorites folder by selecting Remove from Favorites from the Options drop down list.

            ▪ Deleting a Document
To delete a document, open the document’s properties page, then:
                • Select Delete from the Options drop down list on the top right.
                • Click on the OK button of the secondary confirmation pop-up box.
                • The document will now no longer be listed in its folder and is moved to Deleted Documents in Set-Up.
The user deleting the document must have Write access to the document and have Admin and Add Docs on the Permissions page. When deleting a document that has copies in other folders, the original document including its copies will be deleted at the same time. The document is moved to Set-Up > Deleted Documents which is effectively the Recycle Bin for the Document Control module from where documents can be permanently deleted from the system or restored to a live folder.

A document going through workflow cannot be deleted.

            ▪ Retaining a Document
To move a document from its folder to the Retained Document listing in Set-Up open the document’s properties page:
                • Select Retain from the Option drop down list on the top right.
                • A pop-up box opens in which a retention date must be selected.
                • Select a Retain Until date and then click on the OK button of the pop-up box.
                • The document will now no longer be listed in its folder and is moved to Retained Documents in Set-Up.

The user moving the document to the Retained Documents folder must have Admin and Add Docs on the Permissions page. The document will have all automated workflow features deactivated and will be moved together with its archived versions at the same time.
In the Retained Documents folder the retention date can be edited, the document can be restored to its source folder and it can be deleted but only after it has passed its Retention Date.
A document going through workflow cannot be sent for retention.

            ▪ Emailing a Document
To email a document to external email addresses open the document’s properties page, then select Email from the Option drop down list on the top right. A pop-up box opens with the following boxes:
                • Send To: enter the email addresses that you want the document to be emailed to with each address separated with a comma.
                • From Name: this will display the name of the user in isoTracker emailing the document.
                • From Email: this will display the email address of the user in isoTracker emailing the document.
                • Email Subject: the default words “Controlled document attached” will be displayed here but it can be modified.
                • Select Document: on the left will be listed all the documents in the folder and the selected document will be listed in the right-hand box. Additional documents can be added to the email by highlighting them, moving them over from the left to the right- hand box by clicking on the right pointing arrow above. The list of documents on the left box can be narrowed down by entering a word string in the Filter box above. There is a limit of 5 Mb or 10 documents that can be sent at one time.
                • Email Body: the default wording for this email is displayed here but it can be modified. Also note the Macro on the right {User Name} which can be entered anywhere on the text but which will only list the name of the user emailing the document as per the From Name above.

Click on the Send button to send the email as specified in the above fields.

By default, the Email Document feature is available only to the Super Admins but can be extended to other users based on what is activated on Activate emailing of documents by in the Set-Up > Rules.

        4.11 Change Requests
A Change Request can be initiated by any user with Read and/or Write access rights to that document. Click on the Properties icon under the Action column of the relevant document, then open the Change Request/Approval tab, enter the change request details, plus any other information if you have created a field, attach a document if you wish and then click Submit.


There are two different routings after a Change Request has been recorded depending on whether the document has approvers or not for the Change Request. They are as follows:
            ▪ With Approvers: The change request is submitted to the document’s approvers as defined by the relevant Approval type, or Changes type if Activate different Change Request approvers to Document approvers has been activated in Set-Up > Rules. Change requests are listed in the Approvals folder and on the Dashboard as a Change Request notification under the Documents Tab. Click on the link on the Dashboard or on the Properties icon on the Approval folder listing to open the Change Request/Approval tab and the details of the change request. If the task is accessed by clicking on the link in the email, then the user will be required to login to their account before being taken to the Change Request approval page. Select either Approve or Reject from the Your Decision drop down list and then click on Submit. A comment or reason is required if Reject is selected.
            ▪ Without Approvers: As there are no approvers then the change request is submitted to the Write access users of the document who have the option of Approve & Check Out or Reject. So effectively, the approval and the Check Out processes are merged into one. The notification is still the same as with Approvers.

    • Approved Change Request
This is applies to a Change Request with approvers only. After the Change Request has been approved by selecting Approve from the Your Decision drop down list, the link will drop out from that user’s Dashboard and Approval folder. If there are more than one (1) approver for the Change Request, then the document will remain in the status of Change Request until all the approvers have approved it. Once all the approvers have approved the Change Request, then the status will change to Approved Change Request and the document will be listed in the Check Out folder for all Write access users of that document, on the Documents tab of their Dashboard and an email will be sent to them.
A Write access user opens the Change Request either by clicking through the Dashboard link, on the Properties icon on the Check Out folder listing and an email will be sent to them. This opens the document properties page at the level of the Change Request/Approval tab. At the top of the tab will be displayed the reason and details of the Change Request followed by the status of all the approvals and then below that the Your Next Step Decision text box with Check Out appearing in it as the only option. Click on the Submit button on the right of the word Check Out.

The Approved Change Request notification link is removed from the Dashboard of all Write access users and is replaced by a Document Check In notification on the Dashboard of the user who checked out the document. Similarly, the document is removed from the Check Out folder and replaced by a listing on the Check In folder but only for the user who checked out the document.

Once modified and checked in the document will follow its pre-assigned workflow and be published as a new version once approved.

    • Rejected Change Request
When Reject is selected from the Your Decision drop down list, a reason is given and the Submit button is clicked, the user who recorded the Change Request gets a Rejected Change Request notification by email and on their Dashboard which will disappear once it has been opened or when the document has been sent again into workflow.

The Rejected Change Request process applies similarly whether there are approvers or no approvers.

If Activate Delete and Retain Documents for Change Requests is activated in Set-Up >
Rules, then the following will happen:
    • With Approvers: After the Change Request has been approved, the Write access users who have the Approved Change Request notification will instead of just being able to Check Out the document will have the options of Check Out, Delete or Retain. Depending on what is selected the document will then follow the relevant workflow route.
    • Without Approvers: After the Change Request is recorded, then the Write access users will get the options of Approve & Check Out, Approve & Retain, Approve & Delete and Reject on the Your Decision drop down list. So merging the statuses of Change Request and Approved Change Request. Depending on what is selected the document will then follow the relevant workflow route.

        4.12 Document Check Out


            ▪ Check out a Document not in a Workflow stage
A document that is not going through a workflow process, also referred to as “At Rest”, can be checked out by opening its properties page and then opening the Check Out/Check In tab and then clicking on the Check Out button. When the document downloads in its native format make sure that you find the location to save it on your desktop. The saved document will have its version number as part of its file name and the contents of the document can be modified before being checked back in as a new version. The document is now listed on the Check In folder of the user who checked it out with the Status of Versioning.

            ▪ Check out after a Change Request with no approvers
Access the document’s properties page either by clicking on the Change Request notification on the Dashboard or clicking on the Properties icon on the Approval folder listing. When the Change Request/Approval tab opens, select on Approve & Check Out and click on Submit. Follow then the same process as a standard Check Out.
            ▪ Check out an Approved Change Request
Access the document’s properties page either by clicking through the Approved Change Request notification on the Dashboard or click on the Properties icon on the Check Out folder listing. When the Change Request/Approval tab opens, select Check Out and click on Submit.

            ▪ Check out a Rejected Document
Access the document’s properties page either by clicking through the Rejected Document notification on the Dashboard or click on the Properties icon on the Check Out folder listing. When the Change Request/Approval tab opens there will three (3) buttons at the top of the tab and these are Check Out & Delete Rejected Doc, Check Out & Keep Rejected Doc and Delete Rejected Doc & Exit Workflow.

The process followed by each of these buttons is as follows:
                • Check Out & Delete Rejected Doc: This checks out the document, deletes the rejected version of the document from the system and keeps the same version number for the next version of the uploaded document.
                • Check Out & Keep Rejected Doc: This checks out the document, keeps the rejected version of the document which will be accessible in the Archives tab and increments to the next version number, next major or next minor, for the next version of the uploaded document.
                • Delete Rejected Document & Exit Workflow: This deletes the rejected document from the system and takes the document out of workflow. So effectively putting the document back to the At Rest status.

Click on one of the two Check Out buttons and follow the normal Check Out process.
            ▪ Check out a document going through the Comments process
The user who issued the request for comment can Check Out the document at any time by clicking on the Check Out button below one of the drafts, if there are many. The process is
then the same as the other Check Out activity except that when the document is eventually Checked-In it will have the same version as when it was Checked-out.
            ▪ Upload New Version
A document that is not going through a workflow process can have a new version checked in without first checking it out. To do this open the document’s properties page, open the Check Out/Check In tab and click on the Upload New Version button. This opens the standard document versioning Check In page as described in the next section.
            ▪ Cancel Check Out
If you have made a mistake by checking out the document or uploading a new version, the process can be terminated by clicking on the Cancel Check Out button, the Cancel Upload New Version button or the Cancel Restore button which is at the top of the Check Out/Check In tab on the relevant document’s properties page. IsoTracker will cancel the process. If you have access to Set-Up on the Permissions page, you can also cancel the process on the Documents in Workflow feature in the Set-Up area.

        4.13 Document Check In
            ▪ Comments Check -In
Access the document’s properties page either by clicking through the Comments Check In notification on the Dashboard or click on the Properties icon on the Check In folder listing. The details of when the document was checked-out, appear on the opened Check Out/Check In tab, select the modified document, enter an Import Comments and either click on the Send for Approval button or the Send for Comments button. Note that the details of the Comment process are listed by clicking on the words View Comments at the top of the tab.

Changes to the properties of the document can be made on the Comments Check In page and will be recorded in the History of the document. Changes can be made to the Name, Approval and Change Request types and then to other properties by clicking on the + icon next to Edit Fields, Keywords & Documents.
Clicking on the Send for Approval button will immediately send the document into the approval workflow. On the other hand, after clicking on the Send for Comments button a
pop-up will appear and you will be asked who the request for comment should be sent to. The users who were initially requested to provide comments will be pre-selected on the right hand box but these can be changed. There is default wording in the comment text box, which you can change, and then click the Submit button.

Clicking on the Save button will list it on the Comments folder from where it can be sent for Approval or for Comments.
            ▪ Versioning Check In
Access the document’s properties page either by clicking through the Document Check In notification on the Dashboard or by clicking on the Properties icon on the Check In folder listing. The details, of when the document was checked-out, appear on the opened Check Out/Check In tab, upload the new version of the document (or use drag and drop), then select whether the new version that you are checking in should be the Next Major Version (Example: version 1.20 to version 2.00) or the Next Minor Version (Example: version 1.20 to version 1.21) of the document, enter a Version Comment and either click on the Send for Approval button or the Send for Comments button. If the document was checked-out as a result of a change request, then all the relevant details of that change request and its approval are displayed above.

Changes to the properties of the document can be made on the Versioning Check In page and will be recorded in the History of the document. Changes can be made to the Name, Approval and Change Request types and then to other properties by clicking on the + icon next to Edit Fields, Keywords & Documents.
Clicking on the Send for Approval button will immediately send the document into the approval workflow. When clicking on the Send for Comments button a pop-up will appear and you will be asked who the request for comment should be sent to. Select the relevant users, enter instructions in the comment text box and then click on the Submit button.

Clicking on the Save button will list it on the Comments folder from where it can be sent for Approval or for Comments.
The new version number will automatically be added to the end of the file name of the document held in isoTracker.

If you need to cancel the process you should click on the Cancel Check Out button at the top.
            ▪ Upload New Version
This a short cut for adding a new version of a document without first checking it out. To do this open the document’s properties page, click on the Check Out/Check In tab and click on the Upload New Version button. This opens the standard document versioning Check In page as described above from where you can check in the new version. If you need to cancel the process you should click on the Cancel Upload New Version button at the top.

            ▪ Restore Prior Version
This feature permits a prior version of a document in the Archive tab to be restored as a new version. To do this you need to have Write access to the document and Add Docs on the Permissions page. Open the document’s properties page and then with the History/Archive tab opened click on the Archive tab. You will see under the Restore column of the listed prior versions a Restore icon, click on the icon of the version that you want to restore and this opens the Check In page. This Check In page that opens has the restored version in the Attach Document field which has been greyed so that it cannot be changed. Other than that, the Check In page is the same as the Versioning Check In page described above where the Next Version number will need to be selected from either Next Major Version or Next Minor Version. The document is in Workflow and will be listed in the Check In folder under Activities and also on the Dashboard as Document Check In.

If you want to cancel the process you need to click on the Cancel Restore button at the top. It will also be listed in Set-Up > Documents in Workflow in the Status of Check Out and the process can be cancelled here as well by clicking on the Delete icon under the Action column.

        4.14 Document Review
A document that has had a Required Review date assigned to it at the upload stage will need to be checked for relevance at its date of review. The Required Review is a field that is activated on an Approval type and which sets an interval at which documents should be reviewed at. This Review date is updated each time a new version is uploaded. So if the Required Review is at a 12 months interval and the initial version of the document was uploaded on June 2nd, 2024, the Review date of this document is June 2nd, 2025. Then if a new version is uploaded on November 17th, 2024, the Review date is changed to November 17th, 2025. The Review date of a document can be changed at the Check In stage and also by using the Edit Properties feature.
The review of a document is performed by the users who have Write access to the document. They are notified of the requirement under the heading of Required Reviews under the Documents tab on their Dashboard. It will also be listed on their Approval folder and sent by email. Click on the Required Review link on the Dashboard or on the Properties icon in the listing on the Approval folder to open the document review. This opens the Change Request/Approval tab on the document’s properties page on which there is a Your Decision drop down list with the options of Needs Changing and Does NOT need Changing. The workflow of each option is described below:
            ▪ Needs Changing
Select Needs Changing and the Change Request text box appears below. Enter the details of your Change Request and click on Submit and the recording of the Change Request is confirmed. If the Change Request is not recorded, then the document does not progress to the next workflow stage and will remain as a Required Review.
At this stage the Required Reviews link disappears from the Dashboard as soon as one (1) user has selected Needs Changing AND the Change Request has been recorded. This then is replaced by a Change Requests notification for the approvers of the document as identified on the document’s Approval type, or Changes type if activated. Similarly, the listing in the Approval folder with the status of Review is replaced by a listing with the status of Change Request but for different users.

            ▪ Does NOT need Changing
Select Does NOT need Changing, you can enter a comment in the box below if you want to, and then click on Submit. Only one (1) user is sufficient to select Does NOT need Changing to confirm that the document does not need to be changed. The document remains unchanged in its published state and a new review date, based on the Required Review interval on the document’s Approval type, is automatically assigned to it. The Required Reviews link disappears from the Dashboards of any other user that has Write access to this document as well as does the Approvals folder listing.

            ▪ Modified Review Date
A document’s review date can be modified by assigning a new date on the review calendar from that document’s properties page by clicking on the Edit icon located at the top right of the Properties page which is available to users with Write access and who have Admin and Add Docs selected on the Permissions page.

        4.15 Super Admin Override
The Super Admins have the ability to perform a task on behalf of another user assigned to perform that Task. These can be approving a document, approving a change request, performing a required review, checking out a document after a change request or a rejected document approval, sending a document for approval during the comments process, checking out a document during the comments process, checking in a document after a check out all on behalf of another user.

To use this feature it needs to be activated by switching on Super Admins can override approval in Set-Up > Rules.
This is done by accessing the task in any of the Activities folders of Comments, Approval, Check Out and Check In and selecting at the top where the option in red of Own Tasks, the option of On behalf of which will list all the tasks assigned to other users. Open the task by clicking on the Properties icon under the Action column and perform it as you would do your own tasks. For an approval or a required review there will be a drop down list on the task page of On behalf of so that the user you are performing the task for can be identified. If that task was assigned only to a single user, then that user will be displayed on a greyed out drop down list. There will be a record in the History that the task was performed by one of the Super Admin users on behalf of the identified user.
This feature should obviously only be used in exceptional circumstances and will require a comment for approvals when the task is performed On behalf of another user.

        4.16 Document Archiving
When a document is first imported into isoTracker it is assigned a starting version number (either the default v1.00 or as manually selected from the Version drop down lists). Then each time a new version of a the document is checked in using the Check In function it is assigned a version number that is incremental to the prior version. As described earlier it can either be the Next Major version or the Next Minor version. Once it is assigned a version number the
document proceeds through its assigned workflow. When a document is rejected and is checked out but not deleted and then checked back in, the version number of that checked in document will be a version number that is incremental to the rejected version which was never published. On the other hand, when a document is rejected, checked out, deleted and then checked back in, the version number of that checked in document will be the same as the rejected version. All prior or non-published versions of a document are pushed into Archive by the latest approved version.
The access to a document’s archive is restricted to users with Write access and Add Docs on the Permissions page. To open the archives, click on the History/Archive tab on the document’s properties page and then on the Archive tab. Each version of a document can be opened by clicking on its name and viewed in its native application.

Prior versions of a document can be restored as a new incremental version by clicking on the relevant Restore icon under the column of the same name. This opens up a standard Check In page with the Restored version pre-selected and which cannot be changed.

Archived versions can be deleted by the Super Admin only in the Archived Documents
feature in Set-Up and according to the rules as described in the Set-Up section above.
        4.17 Document History
isoTracker records in chronological order, with the most recent at the top, every event that a document has gone through with the name of the user responsible for the event, the time the event occurred and any comments that were entered by the relevant users.
A document’s history can be accessed from its properties page by clicking on the
History/Archive tab and which can be extracted by printed out as a PDF.

        4.18 Document Search
There is a search function that will search for documents based on their name, keywords, the document fields and owner and NOT their content. The search function can be accessed by clicking on the Search icon on the toolbar at the top of the Documents module.
The search function will only search for documents within the folders that a user has Read or Write access rights to. As Super Admins have access to all folders their search request will perform the search in every folder.
The search function works in two (2) ways as follows:
            ▪ When no folder is opened it will search through all the folders in the system that the user has access to.
            ▪ When a folder is opened it will search in that folder and any of its sub-folders below it.
Note that the contents of the documents are encrypted for security and so there is no content search.
    5. CAPA (Corrective and Preventive Action) module
        5.1 Things you need to know
A CAPA is ABOUT something and up to three (3) Abouts can be selected from Products, Processes, Users, Suppliers, Customers, Employees, Various and Others (which are three (3) additional databases that you can create in the Admin section). It can also involve PARTIES and up to three (3) Parties can be selected from Customers, Users, Suppliers, Employees, or Various (Various being anything that is not listed as a Customer, Supplier or Employee) and Others. These can be routed for Investigation, posted with Non-Conformances, perform Root Cause Analysis, record Corrections and then use the Corrective Actions and Preventive Actions features to fix the issue. Tasks can be assigned to them with automatic reminders and escalations and be tracked through to closing. A CAPA can be registered by any user but can only be assigned into the workflow process by a CAPA Admin. A CAPA can also be rejected, again only by a CAPA Admin, and therefore will not go through the workflow of Investigation, recording a Non-Conformance, identifying a Root Cause, issuing a Corrective Action, etc.… and be immediately closed.
Also, everywhere in this chapter the word CA stands for Corrective Action, the word PA stands for Preventive Action, the word NC stands for Non-Conformance and the word RC stands for Root Cause.

            ▪ CAPA Administrator
Before starting using the CAPA module you should assign your CAPA Admins which you can do by clicking on Admin > Manage Users > Permissions and selecting Admin under the CAPA column which you can open by clicking on the word CAPA at the top. If you want those CAPA Admins to also have access to the Set-Up section then select that as well.
Remember to click on the Submit button to confirm your changes. For more information on Set-Up go to the Set-Up section below.
There are five (5) types of Users in the CAPA module:
                • Super Admins: Have default Admin rights over every CAPA and may Assign, Add, Edit, send for Final Review, Sign Off and Reactivate every CAPA. Note that they have the ability to perform a Final Review and Sign Off on a CAPA whether or not it is assigned to them. They can also Set-Up the CAPA module.
                • CAPA Admins: If Set-Up is added to their Admin permissions then they have most of the same rights as the Super Admins in the CAPA module. Otherwise, they can only Assign, Add and Edit CAPAs.
                • Assigned Users: By default, only the Super Admins and CAPA Admins can have CAPAs assigned to them to manage. However, other users can be given that right, although restricted only to add rights but not edit rights, within a CAPA. Additional users, can be added in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users. In addition, Groups, made up of CAPA Admins and Assigned Users, can be created here and have CAPAs assigned to them.
                • Final Review Users: By default, only the Super Admins and Complaint Admins can have a CAPA sent to them for Final Review and then Closed. However, this right can be removed and other users can be given that right. Users, can be added or removed in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users. The process of Final Review, being a two-step CAPA closure process, can be removed in the Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings menu link and replaced by a one-step closure process.
                • Regular User: They can log a CAPA and also respond to a task issued by an Assigned User such as an Investigation notification, a Corrective Action notification or a Preventive Action notification.
            ▪ Opening Page
After clicking on the CAPA tab on the top toolbar the Action Required page opens. At the top of the page are the following icons with a description of their role:
                • New CAPA: Click on this icon to register a CAPA. This is available to all users
                • Action Required: List all the open CAPAs that the user has or has had a role in and this also includes all CAPA Admins. The list can be narrowed down by selecting from the About and Parties drop-down lists. You can also select a date range using the Date Range calendar. Click on Find to complete the selection
                • My CAPAs: Lists the CAPAs that the user logged and is therefore the owner of. Use the About and Parties drop-down lists and/or the Date Range calendar to narrow down the list
                • All CAPAs: This page is only available to Super Admins and CAPA Admins and lists all CAPAs. Use the About and Parties drop-down lists and/or the Date Range calendar to narrow down the list
                • Set-Up: This is the Set-Up function for the module which is described below and which is only available to the Super Admins and CAPA Admins who have Set-Up selected on their Permissions page
                • Search: A content search can be performed of the CAPAs that the logged in user has access to. The search results will not list CAPAs that the logged in user does not have access to
                • All NCs: This page is only available to Super Admins and CAPA Admins and lists all Non-Conformances that have been logged in the system from any module with their status. The display can be narrowed down using the Status drop down list and the Date Range calendar
                • All RCs: This page is only available to Super Admins and CAPA Admins and lists all Root Causes that have been logged in the system from any module with their status. The display can be narrowed down using the Status drop down list and the Date Range calendar
            ▪ Notifications
All important workflow stages are communicated to the relevant users through notifications on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard and by email. Where Log User is listed, this means that the user who logged the CAPA will also receive the same notification for information purpose only with the link disappearing as soon as it is opened. The notifications are as follows:

CAPA Registration
                • Logged CAPAs: When a CAPA is logged (Log User as well)
                • Assigned CAPAs: When a CAPA is assigned to a specific Assigned User or Group (Log User as well)
                • Rejected CAPAs: When a CAPA is rejected and does not enter into the workflow
                • Reassigned CAPAs: When a CAPA has been reassigned to another Assigned User or Group
Investigations
                • Investigation Notifications: When an Investigation notification is sent (Log User as well)
                • Investigation Follow-Up message: When a follow-up to an Investigation notification is sent to the same users as the original notification or to different users
                • Investigation Replies: When an Investigation notification is replied to
                • Investigation Late Replies: When the reply to an Investigation notification is late
                • Investigation Follow-Up Reply message: When an Investigation Follow-Up message has been replied to
                • Investigation Replies Accepted: When the reply to an Investigation has been accepted
                • Investigation Replies Rejected: When the reply to an Investigation has been rejected
                • Investigation Rejected Late Replies: When the reply to a rejected Investigation reply is late
                • Investigation Required Reply Follow-Up message: When an Investigation Notification has been replied to and a follow-up message is sent by the user who replied to the Investigation Notification
                • Investigation Escalation: When the late reply to an Investigation is escalated
                • Investigation Escalation Replies: When the Escalation notification, that was issued when the reply to an Investigation request was late, has been replied to
Corrective Actions (CAR) or Preventive Actions (PAR) Tasks
                • CAR/PAR Implementation Target Date Reminder: This is a reminder of an upcoming Implementation Target Date to the user or user group who currently have the CAPA assigned to them
                • CAR/PAR Implementation Target Date Escalation: to the user who has had the CAPA escalated to as defined in Set-Up > Priority & Reminders > Target Date Intervals
                • CAR/PAR Implementation Target Date Exceeded: to the user or user group who currently have the CAPA assigned to them
                • CAR/PAR Effectiveness Target Date Reminder: to the user or user group who currently have the CAPA assigned to them
                • CAR/PAR Effectiveness Target Date Escalation: to the user who has had the CAPA escalated to as defined in Set-Up > Priority & Reminders > Target Date Intervals
                • CAR/PAR Effectiveness Target Date Exceeded: to the user or user group who currently have the CAPA assigned to them
Corrective Actions (CAR) or Preventive Actions (PAR) notifications
                • CAR/PAR Notes: When a CA or PA notification has been issued (Log User as well)
                • CAR/PAR Follow-Up message: When a follow-up to a CA or PA notification is sent to the same users as the original notification or to different users
                • CAR/PAR Replies: When a CA or PA notification has been replied to
                • CAR/PAR Late Replies: When the reply to a CA or PA notification is late
                • CAR/PAR Follow-Up Reply message: When a CA or PA Follow-Up message has been replied to
                • CAR/PAR Replies Accepted: When the reply to a CA or PA notification has been accepted
                • CAR/PAR Replies Rejected: When the reply to a CA or PA notification has been rejected
                • CAR/PAR Rejected Late Replies: When the reply to a rejected CA or PA notification is late
                • CAR/PAR Required Reply Follow-Up message: When a CA or PA notification has been replied to and a follow-up message is sent by the user who replied to the CA or PA notification
                • CAR/PAR Escalations: When the late reply to a CA or PA notification is escalated
                • CAR/PAR Escalation Replies: When the escalation notification has been replied to

CAPA closure
                • Final Review: When a CAPA is to go through its final review prior to closure (Log User as well)
                • Rejected Final Review: When the user who was assigned to perform the Final Review has refused to close the CAPA as they feel that work still needs to be done
                • Closed CAPA: When a CAPA has been closed (Log User as well)
                • Reactivated CAPA: When a CAPA that has been closed is reactivated by the Super Admin, or CAPA Admin, and assigned to an Assigned User or Group to manage (Log User as well)
These notifications are also supported by email notifications. Where “Log User as well” appears, this means that the user, but not a CAPA Admin, who logged the CAPA will also receive a copy of the same notification to inform them that there has been a change in the CAPA’s status. These “Log User” notifications are only to inform and there is no task for the Log User to perform.


            ▪ CAPA Status
A CAPA will go through various statuses from registration to closing. The status of a CAPA is shown in words on the Description object header on the Properties page and on the Action Required, My CAPAs and the All CAPAs listing pages. The statuses are as follows:
                • Logged: When the CAPA is registered into the system but is not accepted or rejected
                • Assigned: When a CAPA is accepted and assigned to an Assigned User or Group to manage but NO Corrective Action and/or Preventive Action has been recorded in the CAPA
                • Rejected: When the CAPA has been rejected. A rejected CAPA can be re-assigned into the workflow
                • Investigation: When an Investigation notification has been sent
                • CAPA: when a CAPA is assigned and a CA and/or a PA has been recorded in the CAPA. The same status will apply when a Corrective Action and/or a Preventive Action post has been sent to a user in the CAPA
                • Effectiveness Check: When an Action Taken has been recorded in a CA and/or a PA. Note that this status needs to be activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings
                • Effectiveness Check Completed: When both the Action Taken and the Effectiveness has been recorded on a CA and/or a PA. Note that this status needs to be activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings
                • Final Review: When the CAPA has passed its review stage prior to closure
                • Rejected Final Review: When the CAPA has had its review stage rejected by the user who was assigned the review
                • Closed: When the CAPA has been closed
                • Reactivated: This is when a CAPA that has been Closed has been reactivated by a Super Admin or a CAPA Admin

The status of a CAPA will increment only from Logged to Assigned, Investigation, CAPA, Effectiveness Check Completed, Final Review etc.…, but will not reverse unless it is in the Rejected Final Review or the Reactivated status. The names of the various Status of a CAPA can be changed in the Status section of Set-Up.

        5.2 Set-Up
Before starting to use the CAPA module there are some important set-up elements that need to be performed. These are found in the Admin section, which is available to Super Admins and to a limited extent to users with Database selected on their Permissions. They are also found in the Set-Up section of the CAPA module, which is available to users with Set- Up selected in the CAPA section of Permissions and by default to the Super Admins.
They are as follows:

Admin Section:
This is available to Super Admins and to users who have Database activated on their Permissions page and is described in full in Chapter 0 above. As a rule, set-up elements are in the Admin Section if they influence two or more modules. These are:
            ▪ Customers: Add a list of Customers that can be used when registering a CAPA. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New CAPA page. A Customer can be both the about and a party to a CAPA. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first CAPA.
            ▪ Suppliers: Add a list of Suppliers that can be used when registering a CAPA. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New CAPA page. A Supplier can be both the about and a party to a CAPA. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first CAPA.
            ▪ Employees: Add a list of Employees that can be used when registering a CAPA. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New CAPA page. An Employee can be both the about and a party to a CAPA. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first CAPA.
            ▪ Various: This is a catch all list of people that are not Customers, Suppliers or Employees. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New CAPA page. They can be both the about and a party to a CAPA. Make sure that you
have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first CAPA.
            ▪ Products: Add a list of Products that can be used when registering a CAPA. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New CAPA page. Products can only be the about of a CAPA. Make sure that you have created the additional Product Fields, reordered them using drag and drop and/or made them mandatory in the Add Fields section before recording your first CAPA.
            ▪ Processes: Add a list of Processes that can be used when registering a CAPA. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New CAPA page. Processes can only be the about of a CAPA. Make sure that you have created the additional Process Fields, reordered them using drag and drop and/or made them mandatory in the Add Fields section before recording your first CAPA.
            ▪ Others: Create up to three new databases of elements that can be used when registering a CAPA. These new databases can be both the about and a party to a CAPA. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first CAPA.


            ▪ Numbering: the starting number of the third numbering field can be edited here for each of the Non-Conformance, Root Cause and Correction numbering systems. Note that the first and second fields cannot be edited. The revised starting numbers will be available in all modules.
            ▪ NC, Correction Fields: Add up to twenty five (25) additional fields for the Non- Conformance object and manage the sections for the Correction object and create up to a maximum of twenty five (25) fields for each section. Note that if the Non- Conformance module is activated then the managing of the NC fields will be done in the Set-Up section of the Non-Conformance module.
If the Non-Conformance module is activated then the managing of the NC fields will be done in the Set-Up section of the Non-Conformance module.

Set-Up in CAPA:
This section which is accessible by clicking on the Set-Up icon in the CAPA module, is available to Super Admins and users who have Set-Up activated on the CAPA section in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions. These are as follows:
            ▪ Fields: For the Super Admins only there are two (2) menu links being the Fixed Fields menu link and the New Fields menu link. On the Fixed Fields menu link, some titles on the About/Parties section can be changed. On the New Fields menu link up to twenty five (25) additional fields can be created to complement the Description section of a CAPA. The new fields can be text boxes, drop-down lists or date fields. Note that the Fixed Fields menu link is not available to users with Set-Up selected
            ▪ Number: This permits the editing of the CAPA numbering system but does not permit the creation of other numbering systems
            ▪ About/Parties: This permits the activating and deactivating of options on the About and Parties drop-down lists on the New CAPA page as well as the reordering of the items on the relevant drop-down lists using drag and drop
            ▪ Keywords: These are used to help with the CAPAs search facility. A list of searchable keywords can be created here and then easily added to a CAPA on the New CAPA page or using the edit function once it’s logged by the relevant users
            ▪ Responsibility: There are two (2) menu links being the Assigned Users and the Final Review Users menu links. On the Assigned Users menu link, while CAPA Admins cannot be removed, users, who are not CAPA Admins, can be selected to act as users who can be Assigned a CAPA to manage. In addition, Groups of CAPA Admins and Assigned Users can be created here and to which a CAPA can be assigned to. On the Final Review Users menu link while CAPA Admins are listed as default users, they can be removed and any other user can be added to sign off CAPAs at the Final Review
stage. The Final Review Users tab will be deactivated if the two-step closure feature of a CAPA has been deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings
            ▪ CA/PA Fields: There are three (3) menu links being CA Fields and Target Dates, PA Fields and Target Dates and Reminders. Fields can be added to, edited and removed for both CA and PA. Implementation and Effectiveness target dates can be activated for both CA and PA. Finally, the interval and duration of reminders for CA and PA notifications can be set here
            ▪ Root Cause: There are four (4) menu links being Fields, 3 x 5 Why, 5 x 5 Why and Fishbone. The Fields menu link is used to add fields in addition to the default Analysis Method, The 3 x 5 Why menu link is used to change the names of each of the three (3) parts. The 5 x 5 Why menu link is used to change the names of each of the five (5) parts. The Fishbone menu link is used to change the sections, deactivate or activate them and add additional sections
            ▪ Priority & Reminders: There are four (4) menu links being the Priority, Target Date Intervals, Target Date Reminders and Reminder Emails. These permit the activation of the Priority field and adding to its Options. Then Target Dates can be set for each priority for the Implementation Target Dates and the Effectiveness Check Target Dates in both CA and PA. The timing of the Reminders can be set here and the content of the email Reminders can be viewed
            ▪ Status: Edit the default Status names used in the CAPA workflow process
            ▪ Email: There are two (2) menu links being Notifications and Set Reply to Rules for Emails. On the Notifications menu link you can create email templates that can be sent to the stakeholders at the various events in the workflow of a CAPA. These templates can be modified prior to sending. On the Set Reply to Rules for Emails menu link you can set global “Reply To” protocols for your CAPA Notification emails
            ▪ Action Required: Change the fields from the default that you want displayed on the Action Required page. There is a maximum limit of 10 fields that can be displayed and the changes will also appear on the My CAPA and the All CAPA pages.
            ▪ Object Activate/Deactivate: Create new objects, change the order of objects using drag and drop, deactivate objects including the CAPA objects and also rename objects except for the CAPA objects. Also change some of the default settings. This feature is only available to Super Admins.
            ▪ Bulk Reassign CAPA: Reassign CAPAs in any of the open status, except for Final Review, from one user/group to another. Also reassign CAPAs in the status of Final Review from one user/group to another. This feature is only available to Super Admins.
            ▪ Delete CAPA: This is only available to Super Admins and permits the deletion of CAPA that are in the Status of Logged, Assigned, Reactivated, Rejected or Closed.
Each of these Set-Up features in the CAPA module are explained in detail in the following paragraphs.
    • Fields
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the Fixed Fields menu link, which is only available to the Super Admins, and the New Fields menu link each described as follows:

Fixed Fields:
This is the default menu link when this section is opened, but does not appear if you are not a Super Admin and have access to Set-Up, it permits you to edit the fields on the About/Parties sections. Click on the little pen on the left of any of the titles, make your modifications when the text box opens and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. The titles on the New CAPA and CAPA Properties page that can be changed are:
        ◦ Date
        ◦ Number
        ◦ About
        ◦ Parties
The changes will be reflected on all CAPAs past, current and future.

New Fields:
This feature permits you to create up to twenty-five (25) additional fields above the Description section. Each of these CAPA fields can be a drop-down list, a text box, a large text box or a date field.
To create a New Field, click on the on the Add Field button at the top. Select the Field Type, give it a Name, determine if it should be Mandatory and click on Submit. If you have selected Drop Down in Field Type then you will be asked to populate the drop-down list by entering the Option Values one at a time and then clicking on Submit when the list has been created. When completed you can change the order of the Option Values using drag and drop.

The order of the Fields can be moved using drag and drop. Fields that have been used cannot be deleted nor can the options in a drop-down list be deleted when they have been used. They can however be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column which then changes to Inactive.
    • Number
The numbering in the CAPA module, same as in the other modules, is a three (3) section number with a First Section (Prefix) that remains fixed for each number, a Second section which represents that last two numbers of the year that the CAPA is logged and the Third section which is a number that increments with each new CAPA and then gets reset to 1 at the beginning of a new calendar year.

New numbers cannot be created in this section as the CAPA module can only have a single numbering system. However, the First Section can be edited and the starting number of the Third Section can also be edited.
    • About/Parties
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the About List menu link and the Parties List
menu link each described as follows:

About List:
This is the listing of the subject types of CAPAs that appear on the About drop-down list on the New CAPA page. This list appears in the following order:
    • Products
    • Processes
    • Users (+ External Users if activated)
    • Customers
    • Suppliers
    • Employees
    • Various
    • Others 1
    • Others 2
    • Others 3

The titles of these items can be changed, except for Users, in the Admin section which is only available to the Super Admins and users with Database selected on their Permissions which is located in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions. This list can be reordered as well as have items deactivated in this section. The listing at the top of the list will appear as the default on the About drop-down list when the New CAPA page is opened, so it is a good idea to have at the top of the list the type that is most often the subject of CAPAs. The list is ordered using drag and drop with items being deactivated from the list by clicking on the words Active under the Action column. Deactivated items can then be reactivated by clicking on the words Inactive again under the Action column.
Parties List:
This is the listing of parties to a CAPA that appear on the Parties drop down list on the New CAPA page. This list appears in the following order:
        ◦ Customers
        ◦ Suppliers
        ◦ Users (+ External Users if activated)
        ◦ Employees
        ◦ Various
        ◦ Others 1
        ◦ Others 2
        ◦ Others 3

As explained in the Admin section of this manual these titles can be changed, except for Users and External Users, but only in the Admin section which is available to the Super Admins and users with Database selected on their Permissions which is located in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions. In this section, they can be reordered as well as deactivated. The option at the top of the list will appear as the default on the Parties drop down list when the New CAPA page is opened, so it is a good idea to have at the top of the list the type which most frequently is a party to a CAPA. The list is reordered using drag and drop with items being deactivated from the list by clicking on the words Active under the Action column. Deactivated items can then be reactivated by clicking on the word Inactive again under the Action column.

    • Keywords
This feature permits you to create a list of Keywords that can be added to a CAPA at most stages of a CAPA’s workflow by a user who is the Log User (only in Logged Status), a CAPA Admin or the Assigned User(s). Keywords are used to facilitate the CAPA’s search functionality.

To add a Keyword, click on the Add Keywords button at the top of the page and then enter your keywords one at a time and then clicking on the Submit button once you have entered your list. Use the Bulk Upload functionality to upload an Excel or CSV list of Keywords.
Keywords added on the Keyword object on a CAPA’s properties page will also be added to this list.

The entered keywords are listed at the bottom. Once a keyword has been used in isoTracker it can no longer be deleted but it can be deactivated. Keywords can also be added at the CAPA level and be reused in other CAPAs.
    • Responsibility
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the Assigned Users menu link and the Final Review Users menu link each described as follows:
Assigned Users:
By default, a CAPA can only be assigned to a CAPA Admin from the status of Logged. This feature permits the addition of standard users who are NOT CAPA Admins to be added to the list.
Search for the staff member you want added by entering a word string of their first or last name in the filter box above the left-hand box below. Then highlight the staff member on the left-hand box and click on the right facing arrow at the top. CAPA Admins cannot be removed from the list in the right-hand box; however, standard users can be removed from the list by highlighting them on the right-hand box and clicking on the left facing arrow at the top. Click on the Submit button to confirm your selection. We refer to the users listed on the right-hand box as Assigned Users, being users who can have CAPAs assigned to them.

In addition on this tab groups of users that are Assigned Users can be created enabling CAPAs to be assigned to groups, as well as individual users, and all the members of the selected group can manage the relevant CAPA.
Final Review Users:
When a CAPA is sent for Final Review by default it can only be assigned to a CAPA Admin. This feature permits the addition of standard users who are NOT CAPA Admins to be added to the list of CAPA Admins who have the right to Close a CAPA. It also permits the removal of that right for CAPA Admins. This menu link will be deactivated if in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings the “Activate Final Review before closing” feature is deselected.
Search for the staff member you want added by entering a word string of their first or last name in the filter box above the left-hand box. Then highlight the staff member on the left- hand box below and click on the right facing arrow at the top. CAPA Admins and standard users can be removed from the list by highlighting them on the right-hand box and clicking on the left facing arrow at the top. Click on the Submit button to confirm your selection. We refer to the users listed on the right-hand box as Final Review Users, being users who can have CAPAs sent to them for Final Review.


    • CA/PA Fields
In this section fields for each of the Action Required (AR), the Action Taken (AT) and the Effectiveness (E) tabs of each of the Corrective Action (CA) and the Preventive Action (PA) tabs can be created. In addition, the Implementation Target Date and the Effectiveness Target Date calendar fields can be activated for each of the CA and PA tabs. Finally, the Interval and the Duration of reminders after the due date of notification posts can be set here. There are three (3) menu links being Corrective Action, Preventive Action and Reminders.
Corrective Action:
Below the Corrective Action menu link there are four (4) further menu links being Action Required (AR), Action Taken (AT), Effectiveness (E) and Target Dates. These operate as follows:

        ◦ The Action Required menu link has two (2) default fields being Responsibility and Category and twenty three (23) additional fields can be created. The Responsibility field cannot be deleted or deactivated but can be edited and made to be mandatory. Use the Edit icon to change its name and also to select Make Mandatory. The Category field is a drop down list that has been pre-populated. It can be deleted or deactivated, it can also be edited and be made mandatory using the Edit icon. Click on the + icon on the Action column to view its options, edit them, delete them or deactivate them. Additional, options can be added by clicking on the Add Option button at the top. Remember to click on Submit to confirm any changes.
        ◦ The Action Taken menu link has two (2) default fields being Completed By and Completion Date and twenty three (23) additional fields can be created. The Completed By and Completion Date fields cannot be deleted or deactivated but can be edited and made to be mandatory. Use the Edit icon to change its name and also to select Make Mandatory. Remember to click on Submit to confirm any changes.
        ◦ The Effectiveness menu link has two (2) default fields being Completed By and Completion Date and twenty three (23) additional fields can be created. The Completed By and Completion Date fields cannot be deleted or deactivated but can be edited and made to be mandatory. Use the Edit icon to change its name and also to select Make Mandatory. Remember to click on Submit to confirm any changes.
        ◦ The Target Dates menu link is where the Implementation Target Date and Effectiveness Target Date fields can be activated. To activate one of the fields click on the word Active in the Status column. Use the Edit icon to change its name and also to select Make Mandatory. Remember to click on Submit to confirm any changes.
Preventive Action:
Below each of the Preventive Action menu link there are four (4) further menu links being Action Required, Action Taken, Effectiveness and Target Dates. These operate exactly the same way as do the Corrective Action features.
Reminders:
In this section the Interval between reminders after the due date of a notification post has been reached can be set. In addition the Duration of those reminders can also be set. This is done separately for the CA reminders and the PA reminders. The default for each being an Interval between reminders of 1 day and the Duration of those reminders for 7 days. This can be changed using the Edit icon in the Action column and selecting a different number from the Interval and/or Duration drop down list and then clicking on Submit. The reminders for Corrective Actions and Preventive Actions are set separately.
    • Root Cause
This section is used for setting up the Root Cause tab in the CAPA module as well as all the other modules where it can be activated. If the CAPA module is not activated then this is done in Admin > NC, RC & Correction Fields. In addition, the 5 Whys & Fishbone features are not available in the RC tab of modules other than the CAPA module.
There are four (4) menu links being Fields, 3 x 5 Whys, 5 x 5 Whys and Fishbone which can be used to add fields to the RC tab and to rename the sections in the 3 x 5 Whys, 5 x 5 Whys and Fishbone Root Cause Analysis methods.

Fields
There is a default field titled Analysis Method which is a drop down list and a further twenty four (24) fields can be added by clicking on the Add Field button at the top. The Analysis Method field has the default options of 5 Whys, 3 x 5 Whys, 5 x 5 Whys, Fishbone and Other. Each one of those options represent a specific method of root cause analysis and, with the exception of the Other option, can be used to perform the root cause analysis in isoTracker. Additional fields can be added up to a total of twenty five (25) by clicking on the Add Field button at the top.

Click on the + icon under the Action column of the Analysis Method and the default options of 5 Whys, 3 x 5 Whys, 5 x 5 Whys, Fishbone and Other will appear. If you feel that you do not require, say, 5 x 5 Whys then deactivate it by clicking on the word Active under the Status column and see it changed to Inactive. This process can be reversed by clicking on the word Inactive and see it change to Active.

Additional options can be added to the Analysis Method field by clicking on the Add Option button at the top. Any additional options will not have any in-built capabilities such as any 5 Whys or Fishbone do.
3 x 5 Whys
If it has not been deactivated using the deactivation features in the Analysis Method field as describe earlier in this paragraph then the 3 x 5 Whys method will open and display its three
(3) sections being Specific Analysis, Detection Analysis and Systemic Analysis. The name of each section can be changed here using the Edit icon under the Action column.
5 x 5 Whys
If it has not been deactivated using the deactivation features in the Analysis Method field as describe earlier in this paragraph then the 3 x 5 Whys method will open and display its five (5) sections being the Suppliers Specific Analysis, Suppliers Detection Analysis, Suppliers Systemic Analysis, Our Detection Analysis and Our Systemic Analysis. The name of each section can be changed here using the Edit icon under the Action column.

Fishbone
If it has not been deactivated using the deactivation features in the Analysis Method field as describe earlier in this paragraph then the Fishbone method will open and display its six (6) active ribs being Method, Machine, Materials, People, Measurement Environment. The name
of each section can be changed here using the Edit icon under the Action column. There are also two (2) additional sections which are not active but can be activated and also have their name changed.
Fishbone ribs can be activated by clicking on the word Inactive on the Status column. They can also be deactivated by clicking on the word Active.

    • Priority & Reminders
In this section the Priority field can be activated, the default options modified and added to, Implementation and Effectiveness target dates intervals set and reminders scheduled for each Priority. There are four (4) sections being Priority, Target Date Intervals, Target Date Reminders and Reminder Emails.

Priority:
In the Settings menu link the Priority field can be activated, be made a mandatory field and also have its name changed using the Edit function. In the Priority Options menu link there is a list of default fields being Critical, Major, Minor and N/A. Additional options can be added but the default options cannot be deleted but they can be edited.

Target Date Intervals:
Before creating Target dates for the Implementation and/or the Effectiveness of a CA and/or PA, the Implementation Target Date field and/or the Effectiveness Target Date field need to be activated in Set-Up > CAPA Fields > Corrective Action > Target Dates and the same in Preventive Action.
So in this menu link, Target Dates can be set for the implementation of a CA and/or a PA and for the effectiveness check on a CA and/or a PA relating to the selected Priority Option of the recorded CA and/or PA. The page opens on the Corrective Action menu link by default and to add Target dates for each Priority Option click on the Add Target Date Interval button at the top and in the boxes that appear below select the Priority Option that you want the Target date intervals set against, then under Implementation Target Date select from the Resolve Within drop down list either Hour, Day, Week, Month or Year and then the amount of that selection from the second drop down list that appears on the right. If you want the Implementation to be escalated then select from your list of users in the Escalate To drop down list. Do the same for the Effectiveness Target Date. Then go to the Preventive Action menu link and do the same there as well.

By activating the Target Date fields and assigning intervals to them for each Priority Option then whenever a Corrective Action and/or a Preventive Action is recorded the system automatically assigns the relevant Target Dates on which reminders can be set and escalated as selected in Set-Up > Priority & Reminders > Target Date Reminders. Target Dates are calculated from the moment that the relevant CA or PA tab is clicked.

Target Date Reminders:
In this menu link reminders can be set for the Implementation and the Effectiveness Check on a CA and/or a PA. There is a sub-menu link for Corrective Action and for Preventive Action and within each there are two (2) further sub-sections for the Implementation Target Date and Effectiveness Target Date. Each has a list of reminders before and after the due date. By default the reminder at the due date is activated and reminders before and after the due date can be activated by clicking on the word Inactive under the Action column. Then determine who should get the reminders from the Assigned Admin and/or the Escalate User by having the word Yes appear in the relevant column. Click on the word Yes, orNo, to change it. Do this for each of the target dates in CA and PA.
Reminder Emails:
On this menu link are listed the templates for each of the reminders. These cannot be edited or added to and so act simply as a guide to what will be sent out. If you wish to change some of the templates on your account then please contact your isoTracker representative.
    • Status
Listed on this page are the default titles for each of the Status in the CAPA workflow process. These are:
        ◦ Logged
        ◦ Assigned
        ◦ Rejected
        ◦ Investigation
        ◦ CAPA
        ◦ Effectiveness Check (if activated in Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings)
        ◦ Effectiveness Check Completed (if activated in Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings)
        ◦ Final Review
        ◦ Rejected Final Review
        ◦ Closed
        ◦ Reactivated
You may edit any or all of them by clicking on the relevant Edit icon under the Action column, making your modifications in the Status text box that appears at the top and then clicking on Submit. Changes are immediately reflected on all CAPAs in the system past, present and future.


Note that a Status cannot be deleted.
    • Emails
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the Notifications menu link and the Set Reply to Rules for Emails menu link each described as follows:

Notifications:
During the process of assigning and managing a CAPA, email notifications can be sent to the Parties, or any other person, to update them on the status of the CAPA. This option enables the creation of specific templates that can be used at the various workflow status levels of a CAPA. The emails can then be modified before being sent at the relevant stage of the CAPA resolution process. Email templates that are not related to any status can also be created here and sent to the parties, or other users, from the Email object using the Send Email feature.
To create an email template, click on the Add Notification button at the top. Enter a unique name for the template. Use the drop-down list to select the Status that the template refers to. If you want to create a template that does not relate to a specific status then select Other from the Status drop down list. Then enter the subject, the body and signature text. Note that macros can be added at any place in the text by clicking on an item in the list on the right.
When the email is sent out it will match the macro with the relevant details of the CAPA. So
{First Name} will identify the First Name of the parties, or other persons, and place it on that spot in the email. The {Number} macro will place the Number of the relevant CAPA in that spot on the email when it is selected to be sent out. Click Submit to save the template.
The macros for Notifications are:
    • {First Name}: for the person’s first name
    • {Last Name}: for the person’s last name
    • {Company}: for the person’s company
    • {Number}: for the CAPA’s number
    • {About 1 to 3}: for the details of what the CAPA is about. If there are 3 then all those are listed
    • {Parties 1 to 3}: for the details of the parties to a CAPA. If there are 3 then all those are listed
    • {CA Number}: for the number of the Corrective Action in the CAPA
    • {PA Number}: for the number of the Preventive Action in the CAPA
    • {NC Number}: for the number of the Non-Conformance in the CAPA
    • {RC Number}: for the number of the Root Cause in the CAPA
    • {Importance}: for the details of the Importance of the CAPA
    • {Log User}: for the name of the user who logged the CAPA into isoTracker
    • {Assigned User/Group}: for the name of the user or user group who is responsible for managing the CAPA
    • {User}: for the name of the logged-in user sending the email
    • {Log Date}: for the date the CAPA was logged on
    • {Status}: for the status of the CAPA at the time the email is sent
    • {Ageing Days}: for the number of days since the CAPA was logged
    • {CA Implementation Target Date}: for the number of days until the next CA implementation task is due
    • {CA Implementation Escalate to User}: for the name of the escalate to user for that target date
    • {CA Effectiveness Target Date}: for the number of days until the next CA Effectiveness task is due
    • {CA Effectiveness Escalate to User}: for the name of the escalate to user for that target date
    • {PA Implementation Target Date}: for the number of days until the next PA implementation task is due
    • {PA Implementation Escalate to User}: for the name of the escalate to user for that target date
    • {PA Effectiveness Target Date}: for the number of days until the next PA Effectiveness task is due
    • {PA Effectiveness Escalate to User}: for the name of the escalate to user for that target date
    • {Properties Link}: for the link to the properties page of the relevant CAPA which when clicked on will open the entire details of the CAPA including all activated objects and tabs. This macro converts to “here” in the email which is a link to the CAPA properties page
    • {CAPA Link}: this opens the CAPA properties page without any Investigation, CA or PA notifications being shown as these have information that the visitor does not like
Multiple templates can be created for each Status but they each must have a different Email Title.

To view or modify an existing template, click on its Edit icon on the Action column, enter your modifications and click Submit to save your entry. Emails templates cannot be deleted if they have been sent out at least once. They can however be de-activated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column. This can be reversed by clicking on the word Inactive.
Set Reply To Rules for Emails:
There is also a feature for assigning a Reply To Name and Email for the templates that are sent to the parties, or other persons, during the CAPA management workflow. There are three
(3) alternatives as follows:
    • Send from and receive in isoTracker: This will send the email from and replies will go to support@3.isotrackermail.com and will be listed in the Emails object
    • Default. Send from isoTracker using user’s email address but do not receive in isoTracker: This will display the name and email address of your staff member as listed in isoTracker who is administering the relevant CAPA. The sending email address will be @3.isotrackermail.com and the emails can be replied to and will be received in the email box of your staff member who sent it out and not in isoTracker
    • Set Global Reply to Name and Email: This will set a global Reply To Name and Email address to all templates sent from a CAPA. The sending email address will still be @3.isotrackermail.com but the emails can be replied to and will be received in the email box that you have specified. When this alternative is selected, you will be asked to enter the Global Reply To Name and Global Reply To Email in the relevant text boxes

Click on Submit when you have completed your selection.
    • Action Required
This section has two (2) features being:
        ◦ Identifying which is the default opening page on the Action required page from the options of All Open (default), Overdue (listed only if Target dates have been activated), Due Today (listed only if Target dates have been activated), Due Tomorrow (listed only if Target dates have been activated) and Unassigned (default). Select from the list which one you want to open by default when the Action Required page is opened. The selection also applies to the My CAPAs and the All CAPAs pages
        ◦ Permitting the selection of fields that are displayed as columns on the Action Required, My CAPAs and All CAPAs pages. A maximum of 10 fields can be displayed with the Action field being a default field that cannot be removed or have its order changed. To add a field, first remove any fields you do not want by clicking on the Delete icon. Then add a Field using the Add Field button at the top, select a field to list on the Action Required page on the Field drop-down list and click on Submit. The order of fields can be changed using drag and drop.

    • Object Activate/Deactivate
The Object Activate/Deactivate feature, which is only available to Super Admins, has two menu links being the Objects menu link and the Settings menu link.


Objects:
This is the default menu link when this section is opened and permits the creation of new objects and the reordering of objects using drag and drop, except for the objects/tabs highlighted in yellow, and for deactivating objects in the CAPA module except for the About/Parties, Description and Final Review/Close objects. It also permits the editing of the name of the objects using the Edit icon.
The default list of activated objects is:
    • About/Parties
    • Description
    • Containment
    • Keywords
    • Notes
    • Documents
    • Payment
    • Emails
    • Risk Analysis (if the Risk module is part of the subscription)
    • Investigation
    • Non-Conformance
    • Root Cause
    • Correction
    • Corrective Action
    • Preventive Action
    • Final Review/Close
Up to two (2) new objects can also be created. This is done by clicking on the Add Object button at the top, entering the name of the new object and then selecting Text Editor to activate a text editor, to enter text, and then selecting File Upload to activate an external document upload, then click on Submit. The object is then added at the bottom of the list and can now have up to twenty five (25) additional fields added to it. To add these fields, click on the + icon in the Action column of that new object and then on the Add Field button on the next page. Then select the field type you want from Drop Down, Textbox, Large Textbox or Date, tick on the Mandatory tick box below, if you want to make the field mandatory, give it a name and then click on Submit. If the additional field is a Drop-Down list you will be asked to create option items for that list. Enter those options one at a time clicking Submit when you have your complete list. Use drag and drop to rearrange the order of the options as well as
the order of the fields. Click on Close to go back to the listing of all the objects. The new object can now have its order changed using drag and drop.
The following rules apply to this section:
    • When editing the activated fields in a new object, a field cannot be deleted if content has already been entered in that field but it can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column.
    • The order of the objects can be changed using drag and drop except that the order of the objects/tabs that are highlighted in yellow cannot be changed
    • Objects can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column. They can also be reactivated by clicking on the word Inactive. The About/Parties, Description and Final Review/Close objects cannot be deactivated. In addition, either one of the Correction Action or the Preventive Action tabs have to be active and there will be a warning message if an attempt is made to deactivate both of them
    • Objects can also be renamed by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column and entering a new name in the Object Name text box that appears at the top and clicking on Submit. The About/Parties section cannot be renamed on this page but it can be changed in Set-Up Fields > Fixed Fields. The Correction tab cannot be renamed on this page but it can be changed, and have fields added to it, in Admin > NC, Correction Fields. The Investigation object, the Non-Conformance, Root Cause, Corrective Action and Preventive Action tabs cannot be renamed here.
In addition, there are certain objects that need particular attention. These are:
    • The Payment object which permits you to record a Payment information which by default is activated. The name of the object can be changed by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column, making the changes in the Object Name box that appears at the top and then clicking on Submit. There are also four (4) fields being Reason, Method, Currency and Amount which can be accessed by clicking on the + icon under the Action column. The first three fields, Reason, Method and Currency, are drop down lists that have been pre-populated which can then be added to, edited and have items deleted. Additional fields can be added, up to a total of 25 fields, by clicking on the Add Field button at the top. To add an option click on the + icon under the Action column of the relevant field and add to the options by typing in the Option Value box at the top. To edit an option click on the relevant Edit icon on the options listings page and make the changes in the Option Value box at the top. Click on Submit to confirm the changes. Also if some of the options are not required then deactivate them by clicking on the word Active on the Status column which changes to Inactive. The fourth field, Amount, is a text box so does not have any content.
    • If you have the Risk module then you can record a Risk directly from an Assigned CAPA and this is done on the Risk Analysis object. But to ensure that you can do this the Risk Analysis object must be activated on this page.
Settings:
This section permits the activation and deactivation of certain objects on the New CAPA and/or the CAPA Properties pages. The default setting is that all the relevant objects are activated. The features are as follows:

Closing:
    • “Activate Final Review before closing” is selected by default. This ensures that closing a CAPA is a two-step process with the status of Final Review prior to the closure where the Final Review stage provides the opportunity to review how the CAPA has been delt with. If done properly it can be closed or alternatively the Final Review process is rejected and the CAPA is returned to the Assigned User(s) who sent it to Final Review in the status of Rejected Final Review. To be able to close CAPAs without sending them to the interim status of Final Review then deselect “Activate Final Review before closing” and instead of a Final Review object at the bottom of the CAPA page there will be a Close object.
    • “Make Final Review user and Assigned user be different” is only displayed if “Activate Final Review before closing” is selected and activates a rule whereby the user sending the CAPA to Final Review cannot send it to themself. So this means that there
must be at least two (2) Final Review users selected in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users and therefore if the Assigned User of the CAPA is also a Final Review User then they will NOT be listed in the Send To drop-down list on the Final Review object.

NC/RC Features:
    • If the Non-Conformance (NC) and/or the Root Cause (RC) tabs are activated in the Objects menu link then they will only appear once a CAPA has been Assigned. If the NC tab and/or the RC tab are deactivated on the Objects menu link then the relevant features will be greyed out on the Settings menu link.
    • Select “Activate NC tab on the New CAPA page” to have the NC tab appear on the New CAPA page.
    • Select “Activate RC tab on the New CAPA page” to have the RC tab appear on the New CAPA page.
Effectiveness Check:
    • Select “Activate Status of Effectiveness Check and Effectiveness Check
Completed” to activate the two additional statuses of Effectiveness Check and Effectiveness Check Completed. The default setting is that this option is NOT selected and those two additional statuses do NOT appear. If that feature is activated then you should activate the Implementation Target Date and the Effectiveness Target Date fields in Set-Up > CA/PA Fields > Corrective Action > Target Date and Preventive Action > Target Dates. Also, you should go to Set-Up > Priority & Reminders > Target Date Intervals and fix intervals for each Priority so that they appear automatically when a Corrective Action or a Preventive Action is recorded.
Approvals & Electronic Signatures:
        ◦ Select “Activate Approval” so that an Approval drop down list is activated when the Send a Notification feature of Corrective Action (CA) and Preventive Action (PA) is used and to have that Approval copied over either automatically or manually to the Action Required, Action Taken or Effectiveness sections in the relevant CA or PA.
        ◦ Select “Activate Electronic Signatures” option which means that when an approval is required in a Corrective Action notification or a Preventive Action notification, that the approving user must confirm their identity by entering their username and their password in a pop-up. If the username/password combination is correct then the words “Confirmed with username/password” appear below the listing of the approval. If the username/password combination is not correct then nothing will happen. The system will then automatically logout the user when the third attempt of entering the username/password combination is incorrect
    • Bulk Reassign CAPA
This section which is only available to Super Admins, is where open CAPAs can be reassigned from one user/group to another user/group to more than one CAPA at one time.
Select from the Responsibility drop down list one of the following options:
        ◦ Assigned Users
        ◦ Final Review Users
        ◦ Select Assigned Users and then on the From drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassign which will lead those CAPAs assigned to that user or group to be displayed below. From the To drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassigned to. Then select the CAPAs that you want reassigned on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked, the selected CAPAs are reassigned to the user or group selected in the To drop down list. The Status drop down list on the right defaults to All but another status can be selected from the drop down list which further reduces the displayed CAPAs when the From user or group has been selected.
        ◦ Select Final Review Users and then on the From drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassign which will lead those CAPAs in the status of Final Review that are assigned to that user or group to be displayed below. From the To drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassigned to. Then select the CAPAs that you want reassigned on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked the selected CAPAs in the status of Final Review are reassigned to the user or group selected in the To drop down list.
    • Delete CAPAs
This section is only available to Super Admins and permits the deletion of CAPAs that are in the Status of Logged, Assigned, Reactivated, Rejected or Closed. It will not permit the deletion of CAPAs in any other Status.
Click on the Delete icon under the Action column of the relevant CAPA and then enter the Super Admin’s password in the pop-up box to confirm the deletion. Failure to enter the correct password will cancel the process. Note that once a CAPA is deleted it CANNOT be recovered.

        5.3 Logging a CAPA
All users can log a CAPA. To log a CAPA, open the CAPA module by clicking on the CAPA
tab at the top, then click on the New CAPA icon at the top left to open the New CAPA page.


This page has the following features:

            ▪ Date and Number
When the New CAPA page opens the Date at the top left will be set to the time that you open that page. This can be changed to a date and time in the past or in the future.
The Number section on the top right will be set to CAPA and since no other number systems can be created in the CAPA module there is no other option to select from.

            ▪ About and Parties
A CAPA has to be About something or somebody and it can have Parties. The default setting is that a CAPA is About a Product with the Parties being a Customer, but you can select alternatives from the relevant drop-down lists. You can also change the default setting as explained in the About/Parties section in Set-Up. The About section is mandatory while the Parties section is not mandatory. In addition, the details of what a CAPA is About and the Parties involved in it can be edited during the CAPA management process.

Identify what or whom the CAPA is about and this is done by selecting from the relevant About drop down list on the left. The choice is Product (default), Process, Customer, Supplier, Employee, Users, Various and the three Others each of which can be deactivated and reordered in Set-Up > About/Parties, and in the Admin section where content can be added to it prior to recording a CAPA. Alternatively, content can be added from the New CAPA page. Then click on the box on the right to list the items in the selected database which can be narrowed down by entering a word string. You can also click on the hamburger button on the right which will open a tab displaying the letters of the alphabet which when clicked on will narrow the displayed list to database items starting with that letter. Once an item is selected then it will be displayed below. If some of the boxes are blank text boxes, then data can be entered into them on this page (a typical blank field could for example be Batch Number for Products). Otherwise the fields listed from the search results cannot be edited except by using the Edit button on the right once displayed. Up to three (3) items can be selected for the About section by adding another one once one has been selected.
If you want to identify any Parties to this CAPA then use the Parties drop-down list on the right. The choice is from a Customer (default), a Supplier, an Employee, a User, Various and the three Others each of which can be deactivated and reordered in Set-Up > About/Parties, and in the Admin section where content can be added to it prior to recording a CAPA. Alternatively, content can be added from the New CAPA page. Then click on the box on the right to list the items in the selected database which can be narrowed down by entering a word string. You can also click on the hamburger button on the right which will open a tab displaying the letters of the alphabet which when clicked on will narrow the displayed list to database items starting with that letter. Once an item is selected then it will be displayed below. If some of the boxes are blank text boxes, then data can be entered into them on this page. Otherwise the fields listed from the search results cannot be edited except by using the Edit button on the right once displayed. Up to three (3) items can be selected for the Parties section by adding another one once one has been selected.
If the search result does not come up with your expected result then the details of an About or a Party can be added in the relevant list by clicking on the “or Add New” link which is located below the About and the Parties boxes.


            ▪ Description
The key feature in this section is the description of the CAPA which must be entered in the
Description text box. Other information that can be made mandatory is as follows:
                • Priority: If activated in Set-Up > Priority & Reminders > Priority then you should select from the list of options on the drop-down list based on your internal rules.
                • Fields: If you have created New Fields in the Fields section of Set-Up then these will be listed above the Description text box. They will appear with the title and the format that have been assigned to them.
            ▪ Containment
This permits you to enter information that have been taken to mitigate the issue identified in this CAPA. Note that additional fields can be added in this object in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate and clicking on the + icon under the Action column.

            ▪ Documents
This permits you to attach up to 100 documents to the CAPA. To do so click on the + icon on the object and it will open the upload frames. You can search for Internal documents, if you subscribe to the Document Control module, by entering a word string in the Search box and clicking on the button on the right. Alternatively, you can narrow the listing by entering a word string in the Filter box below the Search box. Then select the displayed documents and move them over from the left to the right-hand box by clicking on the right facing arrow. External documents can be browsed for by clicking on the Click to Upload button and selected in the External document section below.

            ▪ Keywords
This permits you to enter keywords or to reuse keywords that will help with the search of the CAPA using the Search feature on the Action Required page or the All CAPAs page. Click on
+ icon on the object header to add new keywords or to re-use those that are listed in Set-Up
> Keywords.

            ▪ Non-Conformance (NC)
If the NC tab is activated on the New CAPA page you can record a Non-Conformance for the CAPA. Note that you can only create a single one on the New CAPA page but you will be able to add others, including editing the current one, during the CAPA workflow process on the CAPA Properties page.

Click on the NC tab, select from the Importance drop down list either Critical, Major, Minor
or N/A. If you have created fields in addition to the Importance drop down list, then select or
enter the details in the relevant boxes and then finally enter the details of the Non- Conformance in the Details text box. You can also click on the Copy Description button to copy the details recorded in the Description section into the Details section on the NC tab. You can also add up to 20 external documents.

If the Non-Conformance module is active on the account then a Record New NC button appears on the NC tab which when clicked opens the New NC page in a new browser tab and copies the key information about the CAPA over. Complete the recording of the NC in the NC module and click on Submit at the bottom of the page to record it. This closes the NC browser tab and records on the NC tab that the NC was recorded in the NC module.

Go to the Non-Conformance chapter for explanation on how recording a NC from the CAPA module in the NC module works.
            ▪ Root Cause (RC)
If the RC tab is activated on the New CAPA page you can record a Root Cause for the CAPA. Note that you can only create a single one on the New CAPA page but you will be able to add others, including editing the current one, at any time during the CAPA’s workflow process.
Go to the Root Cause paragraph in this module for the explanation on how the Root Cause feature operates.

            ▪ Corrective Action (CA)
If the CA tab is activated you can record a CA for the CAPA. Note that you can only create a single one on the New CAPA page but you will be able to add others, including editing the current one, at any time during the CAPA’s workflow process.

Go to the Corrective Action paragraph in this module for the explanation on how the Corrective Action feature operates.
            ▪ Preventive Action (PA)
If the PA tab is activated you can record a PA for the CAPA. Note that you can only create a single one on the New CAPA page but you will be able to add others, including editing the current one, at any time during the CAPA’s workflow process.

Go to the Preventive Action paragraph in this module for the explanation on how the Corrective Action feature operates.
            ▪ Assign To
If the user logging the CAPA is a CAPA Admin or a Super Admin, then the Assign To object appears at the bottom of the New CAPA page. This object permits the automatic assignment of the logged CAPA to the selected user or group on the Assign To drop-down list.


Select Assigned from the Status drop down list, then a user or a group from the Assign To drop down list, click on Submit and the CAPA is automatically assigned to that user or group of users.

Alternatively, the status of Rejected can be selected from the Status drop-down list which would seem a strange thing to select but this permits a record to be made in the system of the CAPA even though it is moved to the status of Rejected. Note that a reason for the rejection is required to be entered in the Comments box before it can be rejected.

If the user logging the CAPA is NOT a CAPA Admin then the Assign To object is not available and when they click on the Submit button at the bottom the CAPA will be sent in the status of Logged to all the CAPA Admins one of whom must assign it to a user or a group.
            ▪ Submit CAPA
Once all the mandatory information has been selected or entered as well as any other relevant details of the CAPA, click on the Submit button located at the bottom of the page. This logs the CAPA into the system, assigns it a number and changes its status to either Logged if the logging user is not a CAPA Admin or a Super Admin, or the status of Assigned if the logging user is a CAPA Admin or a Super Admin and they have assigned the logged CAPA to a user or group and no CA or PA has been recorded, or the status of CAPA if either a CA or PA has been recorded and it has been assigned to a user or group.


For the status of Logged, then ALL CAPA Admins will receive a Logged CAPA notification on their respective Dashboard under the CAPA tab. The CAPA is also listed on their Action Required pages as well as that of the user who logged the CAPA if they are not a CAPA Admin. The CAPA must now be Assigned into the CAPA workflow process or Rejected, as the case may be, and this can only be done by one of the CAPA Admins or Super Admins who received the Logged CAPA notification.
For the status of Assigned or CAPA, then the user or group of users selected in the Assign To drop-down list will receive an Assigned CAPA notification on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard.

        5.4 CAPA with multiple About and Parties details
Multiple About details and Parties details can be recorded on a CAPA. In fact a maximum of three (3) for each of the About and the Parties sections. This could be used when for example when there is a similar issue with two different products running on the same production line.

In order to record multiple About details, start by recording your first item by selecting their category from the About drop down list and then following the same process as described in the previous paragraph. To record your second item repeat the same process as for the first item. Follow the same process for the third item if one needs to be recorded. Each item can be from a different category. Adding multiple Parties details works the same way.

Depending on the Permissions of the user, on the right of each About item will be a Delete icon and an Edit icon. The Delete icon is available to CAPA Admins and when clicked will remove that item. The Edit icon is available to users who have access to the Database section on the Permissions page and when clicked will open a pop-up on which changes can be made to the relevant listing in the database.
The order of the multiple About and Parties details can be changed using drag and drop but only for CAPA Admins and the Super Admins.

        5.5 Logging a CAPA from another module
A CAPA can also be logged from a Complaint after it has been Assigned but before it is in Final Review or Closed, from a Non-Conformance after it has been Assigned but before it is Closed, from an Audit after it has been Completed but before it has been Closed, from a Training event as soon as the first Trainee has Completed their features and before the Training event is Closed and from a Risk after is has been assigned but before it is Closed.

When a Complaint, Non-Conformance, Audit, Training, Risk, or any other module with an active CAPA tab, are in these statuses a CAPA tab appears with a Record New CAPA button. Click on that button to log a CAPA which opens the CAPA module in a separate browser tab. The new CAPA tab will take the About section from the Complaint, from a Risk and from a Non-Conformance and use it in the About section of the CAPA. It will also take the Type section from an Audit and from a Training event and use it in the About
section of the CAPA. The Details of a Complaints will be copied into the Description section of a CAPA. Also any Non-Conformances and/or Root Causes in any of the modules will be copied over to the new CAPA.
Other than that the CAPA is recorded the same way as when recording it directly in the CAPA module. If the user recording the CAPA is a CAPA Admin then the Assign To object will appear at the bottom and they can assign the CAPA to any user listed in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned users menu link. If the user recording the CAPA is NOT a CAPA Admin then the Assign To object will not be available at the bottom and when the CAPA is recorded it will be in the Status of Logged. A Logged CAPA then needs to be assigned by a CAPA Admin or a Super Admin. Click on Submit to record the CAPA.

A CAPA recorded from another module will have that module’s name and the number of the event on the Source field in the Properties object located at the top of a CAPA.

        5.6 Copy Prior CAPA
A Copy Prior CAPA button will appear at the top left of the New CAPA page after the first CAPA has been recorded in the system. This feature permits certain key information of a prior CAPA to be copied over into the New CAPA page and reused. The information copied over is limited to the About/Parties section and the Description section. Click on the Copy Prior CAPA button and a new browser tab opens listing all prior CAPAs. View the Properties of a CAPA by clicking on the Properties icon on the Action column. Click on the OK icon to copy the key information from the selected prior CAPA into the New CAPA page. Note that other content such as in the Containment, Investigations, Non-Conformance, Root Cause, Correction, Corrective Action, Preventive Action etc. sections will NOT be copied over.

        5.7 Assigning a CAPA
A logged CAPA has to be assigned before any action can be taken on it. Only the Super Admins or CAPA Admin can change the status of a CAPA from Logged to Assigned/CAPA.
To assign a Logged CAPA, open the CAPA either by clicking on the Logged CAPA notification on the Dashboard page or from the Action Required page click on the Properties icon under the Action column of the CAPA with the status of Logged. Then scroll down to the Assign To object at the bottom of the CAPA properties.

Select Assigned from the Status drop down list and on the Assign To drop down list select the user or group who are responsible for managing the CAPA throughout the entire CAPA management workflow process. As a reminder, the Assign To drop down list can be modified to include standard users in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users as well as the mandatory CAPA Admins.
When Assigned is selected from the Status drop down list the Choose Email link appears below it along with the email address of the Parties on the right or if there are multiple Parties then all their email addresses are displayed. If there is no email address listed then use this feature by entering in one or more email addresses. If there is an email address listed, then you can use that one, replace it with other email addresses or add email addresses to it. Click on the Choose Email link which opens a pop-up box on which are listed the Templates that have been created for this Status, then click on the Click Here to Edit link which opens the full template and on which you can add or edit the email addresses, edit the text, identify a CC email address and attach a document. Click on the Submit button and the modified email closes and is saved for this event and will be sent when the Submit button at the bottom of the page is clicked.

Enter any relevant information in the Comment text box and click on the Submit button. The page refreshes and the status of the CAPA changes to Assigned, or CAPA if a Corrective Action and/or a Preventive Action have been recorded in the CAPA. At this stage an
Assigned CAPA notification appears on the Dashboard page of the user or group of users who have been assigned to manage the CAPA.

        5.8 Rejecting a CAPA
CAPA Admins can choose to reject a CAPA. The CAPA status is changed from Logged to Rejected and the CAPA is removed from the Actions Required list. To reject a CAPA, select Rejected from the Status drop down list, enter a comment in the Comment text box and click on Submit. You can also send an email to the Parties or any other person prior to clicking the Submit button by following the same process as when accepting a CAPA. Note that a comment is mandatory when rejecting a CAPA.

The status of the CAPA changes from Logged to Rejected and is removed from the Actions Required page but remains on the All CAPA list.


To re-activate a rejected CAPA, go to the All CAPA page, click on the Properties icon of the relevant CAPA, on the Description object header next to the Assigned To title click on the words Click Here. A pop-up appears with the word Reassigned in the status drop down list, there is no other option, and in the Administrator drop-down list, select a user or group who should manage the CAPA, if needed you can enter text in the comment text box and then click on Submit. The Status of the CAPA changes from Rejected to Assigned, is added to the Action Required page of all CAPA Admins, plus that of the Assigned Users, and an Assigned CAPA notification appears on the CAPA tab of the Dashboard of the users who have been assigned to manage the CAPA.

        5.9 Assigned CAPA
After a CAPA is assigned and is in this status of Assigned or CAPA, the objects and tabs that appear will depend on how a CAPA has been set-up in the Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects section. These are as follows:
            ▪ Date and Number
This shows the Number of the CAPA and the Date of when the CAPA was recorded.
                • Source: if the CAPA was created from another module then it will list the name of the module and the number of the event in that module. Otherwise it will list CAPA as the source.
                • History: click on the View link and see a pop-up listing the complete activity history of this CAPA with the most recent at the top. This can be printed.

            ▪ About and Parties
This will list what it is About and the involvement of any Parties. Up to three (3) can be listed on each.
            ▪ CAPA Description
In this section are listed the contents of the CAPA starting on the Object header which displays the following:
                • Assigned To: this will list the user or the group to whom the CAPA is assigned to
                • Status: the current status that the CAPA is in
                • Priority: the priority of the CAPA
Then in the main body of the Description section the following information will be displayed:
                • Implementation and Effectiveness Target Dates: if these have been activated in
Set-Up > CA/PA Fields > CA or PA > Target Dates then the due date for the next Implementation Target Date will be listed in red on the left and the due date for the next Effectiveness Target Date will be listed in red on the right. If there are multiple Target Dates for different Corrective Actions and/or Preventive Actions then the most imminent target dates will be displayed.
                • Associated Events: Click on the link to open the list of CAPAs that have been manually associated with the current one. Scroll through the Associated Complaints by clicking on the Numbers at the top left of the page. To view the entire list of associated complaints click on Properties icon next to View Associated Events which opens a separate tab with the list. You can see the contents of each Associated Events by clicking on their Properties icon under the Action column.

If you want to add some Associated Events click on the + icon next to Add Associated Events to open a tab with all CAPAs and other events (being Complaints, Non- Conformances, etc.) that have some similarity with the About section of the current CAPA. If there is content in those groupings then a red bracketed number will appear at the end of the relevant tab indicating how many events meet the rule. Click on the + icon to open the list of events that have that similarity as the current one. To associate an event then select the tick box on the Action column and then click on the Associate button at the top above the Action column.
                • Fields: These are the fields that have been created and populated and are located above the Description box.
                • Description: This is the description of the CAPA.

            ▪ Containment
Click on the + icon in the object header to add measures that have been taken to contain the issue raised by the CAPA. Click on maroon View icon to open the Containment object and view its contents. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of an already created Containment and on the Delete icon to delete it.
            ▪ Documents
Links up to 100 documents are listed here and they can be opened by clicking on any of the links. New documents can be added by clicking on + icon in the object header.
            ▪ Keywords
Click on the + icon in the object header to add keywords. Click on the maroon View icon to open the Keywords object and view the already listed keywords. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of already created Keywords and on the Delete icon to delete them. They are all searchable.

            ▪ Payment
Click on the maroon View icon to open the Payment object and view the already created Payment information. Click on + icon to add Payment information. Note there can be multiple Payments. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of already created Payments and on the Delete icon to delete them.

            ▪ Notes
You can place notes in this section about the CAPA by clicking on the + icon on the object header and entering the Note in the text box that appears. Then click on Submit. Click on the maroon View icon to view Notes already present. Notes act as a reference to the person managing the CAPA and remain for the life of the CAPA unless deleted. They are also searchable.

            ▪ Emails
This object has three sections. Click on the maroon View icon to view a listing of all the emails that have been sent from the CAPA. The information displayed will be the Date sent,
the Event so whether it was sent from isoTracker or received in isoTracker, the Status as to whether it was from a template or was a custom email, the Subject of the email, the Content of the email, who the Sender was, the email address it was Sent To, who it was Copied to and what Document was attached to it. Note that when clicking on the Copy Description button in the Date Sent column the contents of the relevant email will be copied to the Description section in a separate box from the Description box and below it but in chronological order within the copied over emails with the most recent at the top. This section is updated as emails are sent.
Click on the + icon on the object header to open the following features:
                • Send Email: This feature permits the manual creation and sending of emails from isoTracker to the Parties and/or anyone else. The same macros that are used in the Set-Up section for creating email templates can also be used here. The Parties email addresses if listed can be replaced or edited, and if there are no Parties then new email addresses can be entered. The email can be copied to other email addresses with each address being separated by a comma. A document can also be attached. Once the Submit button is clicked at the bottom the sent email is then listed in chronological order on the email sent listing.
                • Select Template: This feature permits email templates that have been created in Set- Up > Email > Notifications to be selected and sent to the Parties, or other email addresses, outside their normal workflow status. The default listing is for the templates of All the statuses to be listed but these can be narrowed down by selecting a different option from the Status drop down list. Select a template by clicking on the relevant Click Here to Edit link under the Action column. Make any modifications to the template including sending a copy to other email addresses and attaching a document. Click on Submit to send it and it is then listed in chronological order on the email listing. When a template is edited from this page it will only change the text of the template that gets sent out but not the original template.

            ▪ Investigation
This object has two (2) roles. It can be used to record the Details or results of the investigation process. It can also be used to send one or more Investigation requests to one or more users in the system with a request to reply by a specific date and time. In the event that the reply is not submitted by the required time then automatic reminders can be sent out at regular intervals. In addition, the Investigation posts can be escalated to identified users in order to inform another party that the reply to the Investigation post was not submitted in time. For more details on how this object works go to the Investigations Chapter.
            ▪ Non-Conformance (NC)
This tab can be used to record multiple Non-Conformances. If the CAPA is sourced from another module then these are transferred over and further ones can be added.
Click on the tab, select from the Importance drop down list. If there are additional fields then select or enter the details in the relevant boxes and then finally enter the details of the Non- Conformance in the Details text box. You can also add up to 20 external documents. Click on Submit.

Note that if the Non-Conformance module is active on your account then there will be a Record New NC button on the tab and when it is clicked the Non-Conformance module will open in a new browser tab with the details of the About section copied over. Enter additional information and then assign the Non-Conformance and/or click on the Submit button to record it. The tab closes and the key details of the Non-Conformance are recorded on the NC tab.
Go to the Non-Conformance module chapter in this document for more details on how the NC module operates.
            ▪ Root Cause
The Root Cause tab in the CAPA module is different from the Root Cause tab in other modules. This is because in the CAPA module it can be used to perform the Root Cause Analysis and record its results while in the other modules it can only be used to record the
results of the Root Cause Analysis. Go to the Root Cause paragraph for details on how this section works.
            ▪ Correction
This tab can be used for recording the Action Required, the Action Taken and the Effectiveness of a Correction which DOES NOT have the urgency of a Corrective Action. More details on how this object works are provided in the Correction chapter.
            ▪ Corrective Action
This tab can be used for recording one or more Corrective Actions in this CAPA. Go to the Corrective Action paragraph for details on how this feature works

            ▪ Preventive Action
This tab can be used for recording one or more Preventive Actions in this CAPA. Go to the Preventive Action paragraph for details on how this feature works
            ▪ Final Review/Close
At any time after a CAPA has been assigned it can be sent into Final Review or it can be Closed depending on what has been selected in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings. Final Review is a two-step closure process where the CAPA is sent for Final Review to a user listed in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users whose job is to review the CAPA and determine if it can be Closed or to Reject the Final Review. If there are unfinished tasks, the Assigned User sending the CAPA into Final Review will be reminded of these with a pop-up listing if there are any open Corrections, Corrective Actions and/or Preventive Actions and NCs and/or Root Causes that are not associated with a CA or a PA. If Final Review is deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings then the Final Review object is replaced by a Close object and the closure of the CAPA follows a one- step process.

        5.10 Editing a CAPA
A CAPA can be edited by the Log User, CAPA Admins and Super Admins in its entirety after it has been Logged and before it has been Assigned. Once the Status has changed to Assigned or CAPA then the CAPA Admins and the Super Admins can edit all areas of a CAPA. The Assigned Users, who are NOT a CAPA Admin, can add elements to a CAPA but cannot edit elements in the CAPA but they can edit what they added themselves. A CAPA cannot be edited once it has been sent into Final Review and, of course, once Closed. After the CAPA has been Assigned the following items can be edited by clicking on the relevant Edit icon:
            ▪ Number: This cannot be edited as there is only a single CAPA numbering system.
            ▪ Date: Click on the Edit icon above the date to change the date of the CAPA to any other date (future or past) and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. This can only be done by CAPA Admins and Super Admins.
            ▪ About: Click on the Edit icon on the right of the About heading and then follow the same process as when the CAPA was originally logged to select another CAPA subject. Click on Submit to confirm the changes. If there are multiple listings in the About section then these can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon next to each listing. Also the order of the listings can be changed using drag and drop. This can only be done by CAPA Admins and Super Admins.
            ▪ Parties: Click on the Edit icon on the right of the Parties heading and then follow the same process as when the CAPA was originally logged to select another party. Click on Submit to confirm the changes. If there are multiple listings in the Parties section then these can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon next to each listing. Also the order of the listings can be changed using drag and drop. This can only be done by CAPA Admins and Super Admins.
            ▪ Description: The Description section can be edited by the CAPA Admins and the Super Admins. Fields such as Priority and other created fields can be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the word Description which opens all the fields below, select or enter other information in the relevant fields and then click on the Submit button below them. To edit the Description, click on the Edit icon on the left of
any entries, make your changes in the text editor and then click on Submit. The name of the user who made the modifications and their date will precede the edited text.
To add to the Description section of the CAPA, click on the + icon at the bottom left of the Description box and a new text box opens below in which additional information about the CAPA can be entered. Click on the Submit button and the addition to the Description is displayed above the previous Description preceded, in green, by the name of the user and the date and time that these additions were submitted.
            ▪ Containment: This section can be edited by the CAPA Admins and Super Admins. Assigned Admins can also edit and delete information that they have added. To edit this section, click on the Edit icon on the left of an entry, make your changes in the text editor and then click on Submit. The name of the user and the date of these modifications will precede the edited text.

To add to this section, click on the + icon on the object header which opens the add box, enter the additional information in the text box and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details but preceded, in green, with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted.
            ▪ Documents: Documents previously added to this CAPA can be removed. To do this open the object by clicking on the + icon on the object header. If there are Internal documents already selected these can be removed by moving the relevant documents from the right hand box to the left hand box. External documents can be removed by clicking on of the Delete icon on the right of the document and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up.
Internal documents can be added, if you subscribe to the Document Control module, by entering a word string in the Filter box which narrows the documents listed below. Then select the displayed documents and move them over to the right-hand box by clicking on the right facing arrow. External documents can be browsed for and selected in the External document section below. Up to 100 internal and external documents can be attached to a CAPA.
            ▪ Payment: Information previously entered in the Payment object can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the left of the relevant entry and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the relevant Edit icon, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. This can only be done by CAPA Admins and Super Admins. Information can be added by the Assigned User, all CAPA Admins and Super Admins.

To add to this section, click on the + icon on the object header which opens the add box, enter the additional information in the drop down lists and text boxes and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted.
            ▪ Non-Conformance: Information previously entered in the Non-Conformance tab can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the right of the relevant NC number and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the left of the relevant Non- Conformance, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. Note that a Prior NC that has been copied over cannot be edited but it can be removed. The edit function can only be done by CAPA Admins and Super Admins.

To add to this section, click on the Add Non-Conformance button at the top of the tab which opens the add boxes at the bottom of the tab, enter the additional information in the drop down lists and text boxes and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted. Information can be added by the Assigned Users, all CAPA Admins and Super Admins.
            ▪ Root Cause: Information previously entered in the Root Cause tab can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the right of the relevant Root Cause number and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant Root Cause number, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. This can only be done by CAPA Admins and Super Admins.

To add to this section, click on the Add Root Cause button at the top of the tab which opens the add boxes at the bottom of the tab, enter the additional information in the drop down lists and text boxes and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted. Information can be added by the Assigned User, all CAPA Admins and Super Admins.

        5.11 Action Required
As soon as a CAPA is logged in isoTracker, then it will be listed on the Action Required
page for the relevant users as follows:

            ▪ Log User: this is the user who logged the CAPA and is also listed as the Owner of the CAPA. The CAPA will stay listed from the moment that they have logged it until it is closed.
            ▪ CAPA Admins: all CAPA Admins will be able to access the CAPA and be able to manage it even though they may not be the Assigned User. The CAPA will stay listed from the moment that it has been logged until it is closed.
            ▪ Assigned Users: users listed on the Assigned Users menu link in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users, who are NOT CAPA Admins, will only have the CAPA listed on their Action required page if the CAPA has been assigned to them and will stay listed until it is closed even if it is reassigned to another user.
            ▪ Other Users: users that are not in the previous categories will have the CAPA listed on their Action Required page from the moment they have a role in it. A role would be defined as receiving an Investigation, Corrective Action or Preventive Action notification. The same would happen when a user is assigned to perform the Final Review process. That CAPA will then stay listed on the Action Required page until it is closed.

A user who logs a CAPA will have it always listed on their My CAPA page. All CAPA Admins and the Super Admins will have access to the All CAPA page on which is listed every CAPA in the system including those that are closed.
The Action Required page is the default opening page when the CAPA module is opened. It will also open by default to the CAPAs listed on the All Open link at the top. Each of those links at the top of the Action Required page are followed by a number in brackets indicating how many CAPAs are in that category. The default links are All Open and Unassigned and if Target Dates are activated in Set-Up > CA/PA Fields, then these will be supplemented by Overdue, Due Today and Due Tomorrow. The All CAPA page also has a Closed link on the right of the links.

        5.12 Non-Conformance
You can use this tab to record multiple Non-Conformances (NC) relating to a CAPA. If the Non-Conformance module is activated in your account then the NC is recorded in the Non- Conformance module. If the module is not activated then the NC is recorded on the tab in the CAPA module.

To record a NC click on the Non-Conformance tab and then the following fields appear below:
            ▪ Prior NC button: Click on this to open up in a separate browser tab the list of already recorded Non-Conformances originating from the Complaints, Audits, Non- Conformance and Training modules that are activated on your account. Click on the OK button under the Action column of the relevant prior non-conformance to reuse it and record it in the current opened Non-Conformance object
            ▪ Copy Description button: Click on this button to copy over the Description of this CAPA to the Details section of the Non-Conformance. After the Copy Description button, has been clicked once, it is then greyed out and cannot be used again. But the data copied over can be edited in the Non-Conformance by using the edit function.
            ▪ Importance: This is a drop-down list which can be edited in the Admin section and also have option values added to it. It can also be made a mandatory field in Admin. Note that if the Non-Conformance module is activated then the ability to edit and add options is moved from the Admin section to Set-Up > Importance & Reminders in the Non- Conformance module.
            ▪ Additional fields: These are the fields that are created on the Non-Conformance tab in Admin which is only accessible by the Super Admin. They can be mandatory or non- mandatory. If the Non-Conformance module is activated then the ability to add fields is moved from the Admin section to Set-Up > Fields > New Fields in the Non- Conformance module.
            ▪ Details: This is where the details of the Non-Conformance are recorded. It can be formatted and there is no restriction to the amount of text. This can be edited by the user who created it
            ▪ Documents: You can attach up to 20 external documents to each Non-Conformance
            ▪ Related RCs: The left-hand box will list the numbers of the Root Causes that have been identified and added to this CAPA. By moving one or more of the displayed numbers to the right-hand box will create an association between this Non- Conformance and the identified Root Cause(s).
Now click on Submit to record the Non-Conformance. It will be assigned a unique number and will be able to be reused, using the Prior NC feature, in any other Event whether Complaint, Audit, Training or future isoTracker modules with an active NC tab.

A Non-Conformance will be able to be deleted, by clicking the Delete icon on the right of the number, and edited by clicking on the Edit icon, by the user who created it, a CAPA Admin and the Super Admins. Note that a Prior NC that has been copied over cannot be edited.

        5.13 Root Cause
Use this tab to record multiple Root Causes.
Click on the Root Cause tab which opens the Analysis Method drop down list which has the following options:
            ▪ 5 Whys
            ▪ 3 x 5 Whys
            ▪ 5 x 5 Whys
            ▪ Fishbone
            ▪ Other (+ any other added options)

Go to Set-Up > Root Cause > Fields to deactivate or activate each of the above options. Then go to Set-Up > Root Cause > 3 x 5 Whys and/or 5 x 5 Whys to change the name of the sections within each. Go to Set-Up > Root Cause > Fishbone to increase or decrease the number of active ribs of the fishbone and to change the name of those ribs.

Each Analysis Method is described as follows:
            ▪ 5 Whys: Select this and the 5 Whys fields open below:
                • Details: Enter each Why until you have completed your analysis. There can be fewer than five (5) and if you need more than 5 then click on + icon next to Add Another at the bottom.
                • Upload: Alternatively download a 5 Why Template by clicking on the Print 5 Whys Spreadsheet button, then completing it and upload it using the Upload 5 Whys Spreadsheet button which will populate the fields that have content in the spreadsheet.
                • Documents: Attach up to 20 documents
                • Related NCs: Associate this Root Cause with one or more Non-Conformances listed in this CAPA by moving over to the right box the number of the relevant NC.
                • Record: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and have the system assign a unique number to it.
                • Record & Submit Corrective Action: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and automatically open a new Corrective Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Corrective Action along with any NC that is already related to the Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up
> Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.
                • Record & Submit Preventive Action: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and automatically open a new Preventive Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Preventive Action along with any NC that is already related to the Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up
> Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.

            ▪ 3 x 5 Whys: Select this and the 3 x 5 Whys sections being Specific Analysis, Detection Analysis and Systemic Analysis open below. Each section can be populated independently and each can have its own Corrective or Preventive Action mapped against it. The process is the same for each sections as follows:
                • Details: Click on any of the 3 sections and enter each Why until you have completed your analysis. There can be fewer than five (5) and if you need more than 5 then click on + icon next to Add Another at the bottom.
                • Upload: Alternatively download a 3 x 5 Why Template by clicking on the Print 3 x 5 Whys Spreadsheet button, then completing it and upload it using the Upload 3 x 5 Whys Spreadsheet button which will populate the fields that have content in the spreadsheet. You don’t have to complete the entire spreadsheet all at once as you can then use the Edit feature to finish off or open and complete sections that haven’t been populated by the upload.
                • Documents: Attach up to 20 documents
                • Related NCs: Associate this section of the 3 x 5 Whys Root Cause with one or more Non-Conformances listed in this CAPA by moving over to the right box the number of the relevant NC.
                • Record: Click on this button to record this section of the 3 x 5 Whys Root Cause and have the system assign a unique number to it which will be in the form of RC-25-0001-
A. The A denoting that it is part of a Root Cause with multiple sections.
                • Record & Submit Corrective Action: Click on this button to record this section of the 3 x 5 Whys Root Cause and automatically open a new Corrective Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Corrective Action along with any NC that is already related to this section of the 3 x 5 Whys Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.
                • Record & Submit Preventive Action: Click on this button to record this section of the 3 x 5 Whys Root Cause and automatically open a new Preventive Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Preventive Action along with any NC that is already related to this section of the 3 x 5 Whys Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.

            ▪ 5 x 5 Whys: Select this and the 5 x 5 Whys sections being Supplier Specific Analysis, Supplier Detection Analysis, Supplier Systemic Analysis, Our Detection Analysis & Our Systemic Analysis open below. Each section can be populated independently and each
can have its own Corrective or Preventive Action mapped against it. The process is the same for each sections as follows:
                • Details: Click on any of the 5 sections and enter each Why until you have completed your analysis. There can be fewer than five (5) and if you need more than 5 then click on + icon next to Add Another at the bottom.
                • Upload: Alternatively download a 5 x 5 Why Template by clicking on the Print 5 x 5 Whys Spreadsheet button, then completing it and upload it using the Upload 5 x 5 Whys Spreadsheet button which will populate the fields that have content in the spreadsheet. You don’t have to complete the entire spreadsheet all at once as you can then use the Edit feature to finish off or open and complete sections that haven’t been populated by the upload.
                • Documents: Attach up to 20 documents
                • Related NCs: Associate this section of the 5 x 5 Whys Root Cause with one or more Non-Conformances listed in this CAPA by moving over to the right box the number of the relevant NC.
                • Record: Click on this button to record this section of the 5 x 5 Whys Root Cause and have the system assign a unique number to it which will be in the form of RC-25-0001-
A. The A denoting that it is part of a Root Cause with multiple sections.
                • Record & Submit Corrective Action: Click on this button to record this section of the 5 x 5 Whys Root Cause and automatically open a new Corrective Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Corrective Action along with any NC that is already related to this section of the 5 x 5 Whys Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.
                • Record & Submit Preventive Action: Click on this button to record this section of the 5 x 5 Whys Root Cause and automatically open a new Preventive Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Preventive Action along with any NC that is already related to this section of the 5 x 5 Whys Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.
            ▪ Fishbone: Select this and the active Fishbone ribs open below on which Causes and Sub-Causes can be added to each rib. The creation of the Fishbone analysis process is as follows:
                • Causes & Sub-Causes: Use the open text boxes immediately below or above the name of the rib to record the first cause within that rib. Click on the + icon next to Add Sub-Cause to record a sub-cause for a recorded cause. Click on the + icon Add another Cause to record a second cause in that rib. You can add multiple causes and sub-causes to rib with the limiting factor being the space that is available for the Fishbone in the Root Cause tab. All the ribs do not need to be populated at once and after the Root Cause being recorded additional causes and sub-causes for the ribs that have already been populated and those that haven’t been using the edit function.
                • Problem Statement: Type in the Problem Statement in the text box provided or alternatively, if there are already NCs recorded in this CAPA select one from the Copy Non-Conformance drop down list and its contents will be copied as a Problem Statement. If there are no NCs recorded then the Copy Non-Conformance drop down list does not appear. If you don’t have a problem statement immediately you can add one later using the Edit function.
                • Documents: You can attach up to 20 external documents to each Root Cause.
                • Root Cause Statement: Type in the Root Cause Statement in the text box provided. If you don’t have one immediately you can add one later using the Edit function..
                • Related NCs: Associate this Root Cause with one or more Non-Conformances listed in this CAPA by moving over to the right box the number of the relevant NC.
                • Record: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and have the system assign a unique number to it.
                • Record & Submit Corrective Action: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and automatically open a new Corrective Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Corrective Action along with any NC that is already related to the Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up
> Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.
                • Record & Submit Preventive Action: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and automatically open a new Preventive Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Preventive Action along with any NC that is already related to the Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up
> Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.

            ▪ Other: Select this for any other Analysis Method, which also applies to analysis methods other than Fishbone and all the 5 Whys that are added to the Analysis Method drop down list in Set-Up > Root Cause > Fields, to record only the results of the Root Cause Analysis. The following fields open below:
                • Root Cause Statement: Type in the Root Cause Statement in the text box provided. This is a mandatory field
                • Documents: You can attach up to 20 external documents to each Root Cause.
                • Related NCs: Associate this Root Cause with one or more Non-Conformances listed in this CAPA by moving over to the right box the number of the relevant NC.
                • Record: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and have the system assign a unique number to it.
                • Record & Submit Corrective Action: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and automatically open a new Corrective Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Corrective Action along with any NC that is already related to the Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up
> Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.
                • Record & Submit Preventive Action: Click on this button to record the Root Cause and automatically open a new Preventive Action at the Action Required page with the Root Cause already associated with the Preventive Action along with any NC that is already related to the Root Cause. If the Corrective Action tab is deactivated in Set-Up
> Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this button will not appear.

A Root Cause will be able to be deleted, by clicking the Delete icon on the right of the number, and edited by clicking on the Edit icon, by the user who created it, as well as the Super Admins.

        5.14 Recording a Corrective Action
Corrective Actions can be identified, assigned, completed, checked for effectiveness, and closed in this section. To record a new Corrective Action, click on the Corrective Action tab, which opens the following features:


            ▪ Target Dates: If the Implementation and/or the Effectiveness Target Date fields have been activated in Set-Up > CA/PA Fields > Corrective Action > Target Dates then they will be displayed at the top of the relevant Corrective Action. If Target Date Intervals have been set in Set-Up > Priority & Reminders > Target Date Intervals then the due dates for the Implementation and/or the Effectiveness Target Dates will be displayed in the relevant fields which can be changed. If Target Date Intervals have not been set then those fields are blank and can be populated.
            ▪ Action Required: This tab by default will be open and can be used to record the action that is required to perform this Corrective Action. Assign Responsibility by selecting the type from the Responsibility drop-down list which includes users and content in the Database such as Customers, Employees, etc. Then from the boxes below move the relevant names from the left to the right box. In addition, fields that have been created in Set-Up > CA/PA Fields > Corrective Action > Action Required can be selected or completed. Enter the Action Required, attach up to 20 external documents and then click on the Submit button to record the Action Required. A unique number, which is a subset of the CAPA number is then assigned to this Corrective Action (so for a CAPA number of CAPA-25-0001 the first corrective action will be assigned the number of
CAR-25-0001-A). Note: that you do not need to record an Action Required before completing the Action Taken and/or Effectiveness sections. In fact you can do them in any order and the same number will be assigned whichever the tab that is completed first.
            ▪ Action Taken: This tab which is opened by clicking on the + icon on the top right of the Action Required tab header, is used to record the specific action that was taken in the performance of the Corrective Action such as who it was Completed By, the Completion Date and the details of the Action Taken. Assign Completion Responsibility by selecting the type from the Completion Responsibility drop-down list, which includes users and content in the Database such as Customers, Employees, etc. Then from the boxes below move the relevant names from the left to the right box. In addition, up to 20 external documents can be attached. Click on Submit to record the Action Taken.
            ▪ Next Steps: When the Action Taken field is completed a Next Steps drop down list appears below the Action Taken and which should be considered to be part of the Action Taken to resolve this Corrective Action. The options on the drop down list will depend on what modules are activated on the isoTracker account. Select the relevant option to open a new tab with that module and complete the task promptly. The steps are as follows:
    • Change Request: This opens the Documents module in another browser tab, search for the document, open its properties page and record the change request. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, Change Request, Document Name [Version No.].
    • Record CAPA: This opens the New CAPA page of the CAPA module in another browser tab, enter the required fields and click on the Submit button to log the CAPA. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, CAPA Number.
    • Submit Audit: This opens the New Audits page of the Audits module (only if the user is an Audit Admin), enter the required fields and click on the Submit button to schedule the new Audit. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, Audit Number, Audit Type.
    • Log Complaint: This opens the New Complaint page of the Complaints module in another browser tab, enter the required fields and click on the Submit button to log the Complaint. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, Complaint Number, Complaint Type.
    • Schedule Training: This opens the New Training page of the Training module in another browser tab, enter the required fields and click on the Submit button to schedule the training session. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, Training Number, Training Type.
    • New Non-Conformance: This opens the New Non-Conformance page of the Non- Conformance module in another browser tab, enter the required fields and click on the Submit button to log the Non-Conformance. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, Non-Conformance Number, the About section.
    • New Risk: This opens the New Risk page of the Risk module in another browser tab, enter the required fields and click on the Submit button to log the Risk. Close the tab and the action will be recorded at the bottom of the Action Taken feature as: User’s First & Last Name, Date & Time, Risk Number, Risk Rating.
The selected task must be completed without interruption and immediately to ensure that it is recorded correctly in the Action Taken tab.
            ▪ Effectiveness: This feature which is also opened by clicking on the + icon on the top right of the tab header is used to record the effectiveness of the Corrective Action Taken such as who it was Completed By, the Completion Date and the details of the Effectiveness. Assign Completion Responsibility by selecting the type from the Completion Responsibility drop-down list, which includes users and content in the Database such as Customers, Employees, etc. Then from the boxes below move the
relevant names from the left to the right box. In addition, up to 20 external documents can be attached. Click on Submit to record the Effectiveness of the Action Taken.
            ▪ NC/RC: If there is at least one (1) NC and/or one (1) RC recorded in the CAPA then it should be added to the Corrective Action as when you close the CAPA you will be reminded to associate each NC and RC with either a Corrective Action or a Preventive Action. By clicking on the Choose Non-Conformance link and/or the Choose Root Cause link a Non-Conformance and/or a Root Cause can be selected from those created in the CAPA and attached to this Corrective Action.
Click on Submit below the tab you are working on to record it into the system. Do NOT complete all the tabs at the same time but rather start with the Action Required, click on the Submit button and then move on to the next CA tab.


Below the Effectiveness section is a large red button with the words Click to Close in it. Click on this button when the Corrective Action measures have been completed to record that the matter has been closed. A pop-up appears on which a comment can optionally be entered before clicking on the Submit button. The Click to Close button will immediately change color to green and have the words Click to Open displayed in. The action of closing the Corrective Action will also be recorded at the bottom of the Effectiveness section with the name of the user performing the closure, the date & time of the action and any comment that was entered in the pop-up. When the Click to Open button is displayed, the Corrective Action cannot be added to or edited. In order to add to the Corrective Action or edit it click on the Click to Open button and have it change to Click to Close and then make the wanted changes or additions.

The action of clicking on the Click to Close button makes a record that the Corrective Action is Closed. If it has not been closed when attempting to close the relevant CAPA, then a reminder pop-up box will appear informing that the Corrective Action needs to be optionally closed before the CAPA is finally closed. On that pop-up you will be able to click OK to ignore the message and close the CAPA or click on Cancel to go back and close the Corrective Action before then closing the relevant CAPA.


At the bottom of the opened Corrective Action tab is the Send a Corrective Action Notification feature in which a discussion about the Corrective Action can be had with selected users in the system. This discussion feature includes time bound tasks to users, reminders if the tasks are not completed by the deadline and invitation to users to contribute to a discussion. Approval for Tasks and Electronic Signatures can also be activated. The responses can be copied over to the Action Required, Action Taken and the Effectiveness features. There is also a feature for escalating a time bound task if the selected users do not respond in time.

        5.15 Sending a Corrective Action Notification
While the main features of the Corrective Action tab are the Action Required, Action Taken and Effectiveness features there is a way to communicate or have one or more discussions with your isoTracker users. In additional the reply to these discussions can be copied over to the relevant Action Required, Action Taken and Effectiveness features. This is called Corrective Action Notifications in isoTracker and can be sent whether or not information is already recorded in the Action Required, Action Taken or Effectiveness features.
            ▪ Send a Corrective Action Notification
To send a Corrective Action notification click on the + icon next to Send a Corrective Action Notification at the bottom of the opened Corrective Action tab. The details of the Corrective Action notification now need to be formalized as follows:
                • Responsibility: Select the users to whom the Corrective Action Notification should be sent to. Narrow down the list by entering a word string in the filter box, then move the relevant users over to the box on the right using right facing arrow.
                • Reply Required: This is the deadline by which you want your notification to be replied to. Click on the Calendar icon, select a day by clicking on a date on the calendar pop- up, then use the Clock icon to select the time. The date and time for the reply is entered on the Reply Required box. If the Corrective Action Notification has not been replied to by the Reply Required date, the replying user who missed the deadline will be sent a Late Reply notification as a reminder.
                • Reminder: This defaults to Yes which will send multiple Late Reply notifications based on the settings in Set-Up > CA/PA Fields > Reminders with each notification being sent at selected interval and for the identified duration unless the Corrective Action Notification has been replied to. The option of No can be selected from the Reminder drop down list which will not send any reminder other than the first reminder sent at the due date.
                • Approval Required: This field appears when Activate Approval has been activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings. It defaults to Yes which will mean that when replying to a notification post the replying user will be required to approve or reject what they are being asked to review. When Activate Electronic Signatures has been activated as well then the replying user will be required to confirm their identity by entering their Username and Password in as pop-up that appears. Failure to enter the correct login details will mean that the approval or rejection does not get completed.
                • Concerned Section: This field also appears when Activate Approval has been activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings. A notification may refer to the Action Required, Action Taken or the Effectiveness section and to associate it with a specific section select an option from the Concerned Section drop down list and the reply for that notification will then be automatically copied to the selected section. If General is selected then the post is not associated with any specific section but the reply can still be copied over to any section manually. This is a mandatory field.
                • Documents: You can attach up to ten (10) external documents to this Corrective Action Notification.
                • Email: Click on the Choose Email link which opens a pop-up box on which are listed the Templates that have been created in Set-Up > Emails > Notifications for this status. Click on the Click Here to Edit link which opens the full template and on which you can add or change the To Email address, edit the body text, identify a CC email address and attach a document. Click on the Submit button and the modified email closes and is saved for this event only. If there are Parties in the CAPA and they have email address then these will be listed on the right of Choose Email. Otherwise the words No Email Address will show but an email address can still be entered when the Click Here to Edit button is clicked.
                • Action Required: Enter the details of what you want the recipient of this notification to do. This is a mandatory field
                • Escalation Notification: Click on the + icon next to the words Escalate this Corrective Action Notification and the Escalation boxes open below. Select the Users from the Send To section to whom the Corrective Action Notification should be escalated to and enter the Details. An Escalation notification will go off to the assigned users only as soon as the Reply Required date has been exceeded without a reply.

Click Submit to send the Corrective Action notification.
The notification Corrective Action Notes will appear under the CAPA tab on the Dashboard page of the users selected to receive the Corrective Action notification and they will also receive an email.
            ▪ To view a Corrective Action Notification
For the receiving user to view a Corrective Action post click on the Corrective Action Notes listing under the CAPA tab of their Dashboard. The Corrective Action Notification can also be viewed by clicking on the link in the notifying email and logging into to the receiving user’s isoTracker account. In both cases the Properties page opens at the location of the Corrective Action Notification. The notification can also be accessed from the Actions Required page. Click on the Properties icon under the Action column and then scroll down to the Corrective Action tab, open it and see the post listed in grey as a blog with the Submit Reply button just above it. Click on the Submit Reply button in order to reply to that notification.
            ▪ Sending additional Corrective Action Notifications
Additional Corrective Action notifications can be sent as part of this discussion by clicking on the + icon next to Send a Corrective Action Notification below the listed notification posts. There is no limit to the number of notifications that can be sent. This will issue a new discussion stream which will be differentiated by the two-digit number in red on the right of the name of the user it was sent to or replied from but will still be listed in chronological order mixed with the other discussion stream.

            ▪ Sending a Follow-Up to a Corrective Action Notification
A follow-up to a Corrective Notification can be sent by the sending user to the same users, or to different users, by clicking on the + icon on the left of the Reply Required date. On the boxes that open above the original receive users will be listed on the Send To right hand box. You may send the Follow-Up message to the same users and/or other users by making sure that the relevant users are displayed in the right-hand box. Enter the message in the Follow- Up message box and then click the Submit button.
The details of the Follow-Up Message are added to the Corrective Action notification listing in chronological order with the most recent at the bottom. The receiving users will have a Corrective Action Follow-Up Message notification on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard and will also receive an email. A Follow-Up Message can be replied to by the receiving users by clicking on the + icon on the left of the Follow-Up Sent date but this is not required as there is no mandatory Reply Required Date.

            ▪ Replying to a Corrective Action Notification
A user selected to receive a Corrective Action Notification can access and reply to the Notification by clicking on the relevant Corrective Action Notes link on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard or on the link in the email that they have received. This opens the properties page at the Corrective Action posts which are listed in chronological order with the most recent at the top. To reply to the notification, click the Submit Reply button, enter the reply, if you want you can specify a Completion Date of the task and attach documents to the reply, and then click on Submit.
The Notification reply details are displayed chronologically in a different shade of grey to differentiate it from the original Corrective Action Notes post. The notification, Corrective Action Replies, will appear on the CAPA tab of the Dashboard of the user being replied to.

The user being replied to can also copy the details of the reply by clicking on any of the three buttons that appear on the left of the date that the reply was sent. These buttons are:
                • Copy to AR: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the text section of the Action Required feature.
                • Copy to AT: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the text section of the Action Taken feature.
                • Copy to E: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the text section of the Effectiveness feature.
Once a button has been clicked it is then deactivated so that the text cannot copied again to the same feature.

            ▪ Late Reply Notifications
If the reply to a Corrective Action Notification is not received by the Reply Required date, then a reminder notification is sent out to the person who is late with their reply. The notification is listed on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard and also by email.
The Corrective Action Late Replies post will be listed chronologically with the most recent at the top. If on the Reminder drop down list the default of Yes was maintained when the notification was originally sent then the user who is late in replying to the notification with receive further Late Reply notifications based on the settings Set-Up > CA/PA Fields > Reminders.

            ▪ Sending a Reply to a Follow-Up Message
The receiving users of a Follow-Up message can reply to it by clicking on the + icon on the left of the Follow-Up Sent date. On the boxes that open above the original Follow-up message, enter the reply in the Follow-Up Reply text editor, attach any documents and then click the Submit button.
The details of the Follow-Up Reply message are added to the Corrective Action notification listing in chronological order with the most recent at the top. The receiving users will have an Corrective Action Follow-Up Reply message notification on their Dashboard and will also receive an email. A Corrective Action Follow-Up Reply message cannot be replied to.

            ▪ Escalation notifications
To have a Corrective Action Notification be automatically escalated to one or more other users when the Reply Required date has been missed, click on the + icon next to Escalate this Corrective Action Notification at the bottom while a Corrective Action notification is being created, select the user or users who are to receive the Escalation notification and then enter the details of the escalation. Click on Submit to send both the Corrective Action notification and its Escalation. Note that an Escalation notification can also be sent to oneself as a reminder.
If the user does not reply to the Corrective Action notification by the Reply Required date, then the Escalation notification will automatically go off to the selected user(s). It will appear in grey chronologically above its associated Corrective Action notification with a Submit Reply button above it. An Escalation of a Corrective Action notification is listed as Corrective Action Escalation on the CAPA tab of the Dashboard of the receiving user.


A reply to an Escalation notification is submitted by clicking on the Submit Reply button and the reply is listed in chronological order above the original Escalation post. The user receiving the reply will have an Corrective Action Escalation Replies notification on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard and also by email. The notifications disappear after the Dashboard link is clicked through.
If you forget to add an Escalation to a notification post, this can be done by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the sent notification before it has been replied to, accepted or rejected.
            ▪ Sending a Follow-Up to a Corrective Action Required Reply notification
After a Corrective Action Notification has been replied to the replying user can send a follow- up to that reply. This is done by clicking on the + icon on the left of the Reply Sent date. On
the boxes that open above the original reply enter the follow-up message in the Required Reply Follow-Up message box and then click the Submit button.
The details of the Required Reply Follow-Up Message are added to the Corrective Action listing in chronological order with the most recent at the top. The receiving users will have a Corrective Action Required Reply Follow-Up Message notification on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard and will also receive an email. A Corrective Action Required Reply Follow-Up Message cannot be Rejected or Accepted by the receiving user.


The user receiving the Required Reply Follow-Up Message can also copy the details of the message by clicking on any of the three buttons that appear on the left of the date that the message was sent. These buttons are:
    • Copy to AR: When clicked the details of the message will be copied over to the text section of the Action Required feature.
    • Copy to AT: When clicked the details of the message will be copied over to the text section of the Action Taken feature.
    • Copy to E: When clicked the details of the message will be copied over to the text section of the Effectiveness feature.
Once a button has been clicked it is then deactivated so that the text cannot copied again to the same feature.
            ▪ Accepting or Rejecting Corrective Action Replies
The user who issued the Corrective Action notification has the option to accept or reject the reply to the notification which is known as a Corrective Action Replies. Accepting it means that the discussion is closed while Rejecting it means that more information is required and the notification will be relaunched with a new required reply date.

To review the reply to the Corrective Action Notification, click through on the Corrective Action Replies link under the CAPA tab on the Dashboard or click on the Properties icon under the Action column of the relevant CAPA on the Action Required page. With the properties page open, scroll down to the Corrective Action tab, open it and see the Corrective Action Notifications and their replies.

Click on the Accept/Reject button and then to Accept the reply to Corrective Action Notification select Accepted from the Action drop down list and click on the Submit button. A notification is sent to the user who replied to it as Corrective Action Replies Accepted on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard. The same notification is also sent to the Sending User who sent out the Corrective Action notification and accepted its reply.

To Reject a reply to a Corrective Action Notification, select Rejected from the Action drop down list then enter the Action Required, a Reply Due Date and click on Submit. This sends an Corrective Action Replies Rejected notification to the user who replied to the Corrective Action Notification. It is effectively a re-issue of the Corrective Action Notification which has to be replied to but with a new Reply Required Date. A Corrective Action Rejected Late Replies notification will be sent out if the rejected Corrective Action has not been replied to by the new Reply Required Date. If the original Corrective Action notification had an Escalation activated on it, then an Corrective Action Escalation notification will also be sent out to the same users on the Reply Due Date. But this only happens if the relaunched notifications, as a result of the rejection of the previous reply, is not replied to by the new Reply Due Date. The Concerned Section drop down list will be reset to default to Select so that another section can be selected and the reply to this Rejected post will then be automatically copied over to that new section.

Finally, the Corrective Action Rejected Late Replies notifications as per the settings in Set- Up > CA/PA Fields > Reminders will be sent unless No was selected on the Reminder drop down list for the original Corrective Action notification.
            ▪ Editing a Corrective Action Notification and its Escalation Notification
A Corrective Action Notification and its Escalation Notification, if created, can be edited by the Send User at any time prior to its Reply Required date, while the Reply to a Corrective Action Notification can be edited by the Reply User at any time prior to it being Accepted or Rejected. To edit click on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant post, make the changes and click on the Submit button.
            ▪ Editing the Reply to a Corrective Action Notification and its Escalation Notification Reply
The Reply to a Corrective Action Notification can be edited by the Reply User at any time prior to it being accepted or rejected. To edit click on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant reply post, make the changes and then click on the Submit button. The Reply to an Escalation Notification cannot be edited.

            ▪ Editing a Follow-Up Message
The editing rules for the three (3) types of Follow-Up messages are as follows:
                • Follow-Up Message: This is sent out as a follow-up to a Corrective Action notification and can be edited by the sending user at any time prior to it being replied to or of the CAPA being closed.
                • Follow-Up Reply Message: This is the reply to the Follow-Up Message and can be edited by the replying user at any time prior to the CAPA being closed.
                • Required Reply Follow-Up Message: This is the follow-up to the reply to a Corrective Action notification and can be edited by the replying user at any time prior to the CAPA being closed.
            ▪ Deleting Corrective Action Notifications, Escalations and Replies
All notifications, escalations and replies can be deleted only by the Super Admins by clicking on the Delete icon on the right side of each post. There will be a secondary confirmation required before the relevant post can be complete deleted.

        5.16 Recording a Preventive Action
Please refer to the Recording a Corrective Action paragraph above as recording a Preventive Action is handled in a similar fashion within isoTracker. Obviously, you will need to use the Preventive Action tab instead.

        5.17 Sending a Preventive Action Notification
Please refer to the Sending a Corrective Action Notification paragraph above as the process is handled in a similar fashion. Note that all Preventive Action notifications will be listed on the CAPA tab of the Dashboard. Notifications are also sent by email.

        5.18 Reassigning a CAPA
A CAPA can be reassigned from one Assigned User to another Assigned User or Assigned Group by the current Assigned User, all CAPA Admins and Super Admins. The new Assigned User will receive a Reassigned CAPAs notification on their Dashboard as well as an email. Any active conversations taking place in the Investigation object will continue between the original send and receive users irrespective of any changes in the Assigned User(s).

To reassign a CAPA, click on the Edit icon on the right of the name of the Assigned To person on the Details object header. A pop-up appears with the word Reassigned selected in the Status drop-down list, there is no other option, and the name of the logged user in the Administrator drop-down list. Select a different user or group from the Administrator drop- down list, enter text in the comment text box if required and then click on Submit. The users to whom the CAPA has been reassigned to, receive an email, a Reassigned CAPAs notification on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard and the reassigned CAPA will be listed on their Action Required page, if it is not already listed. If there was content entered in the
Comment box when reassigning the CAPA then the call out on the right of the Assigned To information will be flashing red. When the call out is clicked and read the call out will turn pink and stop flashing. This is only for the Assigned User with other users just having the call out in pink and not flashing.

As a reminder, the list of Users who can have CAPAs assigned to them are the CAPA Admins plus any users added to the list in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users and groups created below the user section.

        5.19 Using the Search feature
The content of listed CAPAs of the logged in user can be searched by clicking on the Search icon at the top of the page. The search can be in ALL CAPAs (default), Open CAPAs or Closed CAPAs and using multiple search terms each separated by a semi colon.
The search results are displayed with a list of CAPAs containing the search term with the listing at the top having the most instances of that search term. The next CAPA down on the search result list will have fewer instances of that search term than the one above it and so on. If there are multiple search terms then each will have a separate listing.
Click on the Properties icon of a listed CAPA in the search results list to open it.

        5.20 Investigating a CAPA
After a CAPA is accepted, the focus shifts to solving the CAPA and the process of investigation begins. For a description of how it works go to Investigations Chapter.

        5.21 Two-Step closing of a CAPA
The default setting is for a CAPA to be closed using a two-step process with the first step being a Final Review and the last step being Closed. If in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings the “Activate Final Review before closing” feature is not selected, the CAPA closure process will follow that one-step process. Go to the next paragraph for a one-step closure process.

A complete review, the Final Review process, of a CAPA can be performed at any time once the CAPA has been Assigned but most probably after an Investigation, and resolving the issue using a Corrective Action and/or a Preventive Action. From the status of Final Review a CAPA can be reviewed and then Closed or sent back to the prior stage for further study or action. The Final Review process can be carried out by the Super Admin, CAPA Admins and any user who has been identified on the right hand box of the Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users menu link. Also, a CAPA can be sent to Final Review by the Assigned Users, all CAPA Admins and the Super Admins.

To send a CAPA to Final Review, click on the + icon on the Final Review object header. Then assign the Final Review process to a staff member by selecting them from the Send To drop down list, if you want to inform the parties, or other people, select an email template to send to them by clicking on the Choose Email link, you can make changes to the template and the receiving users’ email addresses, enter the Final Comment in the relevant text box, attach up to 20 documents if you need to and click the Submit button.
The status of the CAPA changes to Final Review. The user assigned to perform the final review process will have a Final Review notification on their CAPA tab of their Dashboard and on the Final Review object header when they open the Properties page. They will also receive an email.

Note that, if there are Corrections, Corrective Actions or, Preventive Actions or Risks recorded from this CAPA that have not been closed then a warning pop-up will appear at the time the Final Review object is opened. This pop-up will also list any NCs and RCs that are
not connected to either a CA or a PA. Click OK if you want to progress to the Final Review process or Cancel if you want to close the raised issues.
    • Closing the CAPA
Select Closed from the Status drop down list, send an email if you wish to the parties, or other people, you may enter a comment, attach up to 20 documents and click on the Submit button. The Status of the CAPA changes to Closed and the CAPA is removed from all relevant users’ Action Required page. If there are still Corrections, Corrective Actions, Preventive Actions and/or Risks recorded from this CAPA that have not been closed, then a warning pop-up will appear at the time that Closed is selected from the Status drop down list. This pop-up will also list any NCs and RCs that are not connected to either a CA or a PA. Click OK if you want to progress to the Closed process or Cancel if you want to reject the Closed process and have any or all outstanding matters dealt with.
The user who originally logged the CAPA will receive a Closed CAPA notification. A Closed CAPA can be re-activated and changed to the status of Assigned by Super Admins and CAPA Admins from the All CAPA page.

    • Rejected Final Review
Select Rejected Final Review if you do not think that the CAPA is ready to be closed, enter a Rejected Comment and click on the Submit button. The Status of the CAPA changes to Rejected Final Review and a notification of Rejected Final Review is sent to the Assigned Users who sent the CAPA to Final Review in the first place. The notification appears on the CAPA tab of their Dashboard as well as on the Final Review object header which will have turned the color red and by email.
From the Rejected Final Review status, a CAPA can again be sent to Final Review or alternatively it can have another Investigation notification, Correction, Corrective Action and/or Preventive Action recorded on it. As well as associating NCs and RCs that had not been associated with a Corrective Action and/or Preventive Action.

The Status of the CAPA will change to that of the next event and then increment from there on. For example, if the next event after a Rejected Final Review is an Investigation notification then the Status will change to Investigation and it can only progress to CAPA and Final Review but it cannot go back to Assigned or Reject Final Review.

    • Different Assigned and Final Review users
With the two-step closure process activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings there is also the ability to ensure that an Assigned User is not able to close their own CAPA. To do that activate “Make Final Review user and Assigned user be different” on the Settings menu link. This will mean that if a user is on both the right-hand boxes in Assigned Users and the Final User menu links in Set-Up > Responsibility then when they are the Assigned User of a CAPA and they want to send it for Final Review that they will NOT be able to send it to themselves and as a consequence they will not be listed on the Send To drop down list.

        5.22 One-Step closing of the CAPA
If in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings, the feature “Activate Final Review before closing” is deselected then the CAPA closure process will follow a one-step process. This means that instead of having a Final Review object at the bottom there will be a Close object and a CAPA can be closed in one-step.

This is done by opening the object, selecting Close from the Status drop down list and clicking on the Submit button. You can also send an email to the parties or other people, from the templates in Set-Up > Emails > Notifications, and enter a comment in the Comments box. If there are still Corrections, Corrective Actions, Preventive Actions and/or Risks recorded from this CAPA that have not been closed, then a warning pop-up will appear at the time that Closed is selected from the Status drop down list. This pop-up will also list any NCs and RCs that are not connected to either a CA or a PA. Click OK if you want to progress to
Closed or Cancel if you want to reject the Closed process and have any or all outstanding matters dealt with.

        5.23 Reactivating a Closed CAPA
A CAPA that has been closed is listed in the All CAPAs page from where it can be reactivated at any time by all CAPA Admins and Super Admins.

To re-activate a closed CAPA, go to the All CAPAs page, click on the Properties icon of the relevant CAPA, then on the Details object header next to the Assigned To title click on the words Click Here. In the pop-up Reactivated appears in the Status drop down list, there is no other option, and the logged user in the Administrator drop-down list. Select a different Assigned User, if required, optionally enter text in the comment text box and then click on Submit. You can also reactivate a closed CAPA by clicking on the Reactivate icon on the Action column on the All CAPAs page.
The CAPA is now reactivated and can go through the normal workflow steps as it did during any prior life. The old information is still listed and any new information can be added to that.
    6. Complaints Module
        6.1 Things you need to know
You can record Complaints FROM with up to three (3) Database items being Customers, Users, Suppliers, Employees, or Various (Various is a database similar to Customers and Suppliers which can be renamed) and Others (which are three (3) additional databases that you can create in the Admin section) and ABOUT with up to three (3) Products, Processes, Users, Suppliers, Customers, Employees, Various and Others. These can be routed for Investigation, posted with Non-Conformances, Root Causes, Corrections, CAPAs and be tracked through to closing. A Complaint can be registered by any user but can only be accepted into the workflow process by a Complaint Admin or Super Admin. There are also Dispatch rules that can be set to automatically direct a Complaint to a specific user or grouping of users to review and assign or to automatically assign a complaint to a specific user or grouping of users. A Complaint can also be rejected, again only by a Complaint Admin, and therefore will not go through the workflow of Investigation, recording a Non- Conformance, identifying a Root Cause, issuing a CAPA, etc.… and be immediately closed.
            ▪ Complaint Admin
Before starting using the Complaints module you should assign your Complaint Admins which you can do by clicking on Admin > Manage Users > Permissions by opening the Permissions for the Complaints module by clicking on the word Complaints and then selecting Admin. You can also select Set-Up if you want the user to be able to access the Set-Up section of the Complaints module. These are described below in the Set-Up section.

There are five (5) types of Users in the Complaints module:
                • Super Admins: Have default Admin rights over every Complaint and may Assign, Add, Edit, send for Final Review, Sign Off and Reactivate every Complaint. Note that they can have the ability to perform a Final Review and Close a Complaint whether or not it is assigned to them. They can also Set-Up the Complaints module.
                • Complaint Admins: They have the same admin rights over complaints as the Super Admins. They do not have automatic access to the Set-Up section unless they have Set-Up selected and do not have access to the Database section unless they have Database selected both of them in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions.
                • Assigned Users: By default, only the Super Admins and Complaint Admins can have Complaints assigned to them to manage. However, other users can be given that right, although restricted only to add rights but not edit rights, within a Complaint. Additional users, can be added in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users. In addition, Groups made up of Complaint Admins and Assigned Users can be created here and have Complaints assigned to them.
                • Final Review Users: By default, only the Super Admins and Complaint Admins can have a Complaint sent to them for Final Review and then Closed. However, this right can be removed as well as other users can be given that right. Users, can be added or removed in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users. The process of Final Review, being a two-step Complaint closure process, can be removed in the Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings menu link and replaced by a one-step closure process.
                • Regular User: They can log a Complaint and also respond to an Investigation
notification.


            ▪ Opening Page
After clicking on the Complaints icon on the bottom toolbar the Action Required page opens. At the top of the page are the following icons with a description of their role:
                • New Complaint: Click on this icon to record a Complaint. This is available to all users
                • Action Required: List all the open Complaints that the user has or has had a role in and this also includes all Complaint Admins. The list can be narrowed down by selecting from the From and About drop-down lists. You can also select a date range using the Date From and Date To calendars. Click on Find to complete the selection
                • My Complaints: Lists the Complaints that the user logged and is therefore the owner of. Use the From and About drop-down lists and/or the Date From and Date To calendars to narrow down the list
                • All Complaints: This page is only available to Super Admins and Complaint Admins and lists all Complaints. Use the From and About drop-down lists and/or the Date From and Date To calendars to narrow down the list
                • Search: A content search can be performed of the Complaints that the logged in user has access to. The search results will not list Complaints that the logged in user does not have access to
                • Set-Up: This is the Set-Up function for the module which is described below and which is only available to users who have Set-Up selected in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions.
                • All NCRs: This page is only available to Super Admins and Complaint Admins and lists all Non-Conformances that have been logged in the Complaints, Audit, Non- Conformance, Risk and Training modules with their status. The period covered is from the start of the account until today and will display NCs both in the Status of Open and Closed
            ▪ Notifications
All important workflow stages are communicated to the relevant users through notifications on their Dashboard. Where Log User is listed, this means that the user who logged the Complaint will also receive the same notification for information purpose only with the link disappearing as soon as it is opened. The notifications appear on the Complaints tab of their Dashboard. The notifications are as follows:

Complaint Registration
                • Logged Complaints: When a Complaint is logged (Log User as well)
                • Assigned Complaints: When a Complaint is assigned to a specific Assigned User or Group (Log User as well)
                • Rejected Complaints: When a Complaint is rejected and does not enter into the workflow
                • Reassigned Complaints: When a Complaint has been reassigned to another Assigned User or Group
Investigations
                • Investigation Notifications: When an Investigation notification is sent (Log User as well)
                • Investigation Follow-Up message: When a follow-up to an Investigation notification is sent to the same users as the original notification or to different users
                • Investigation Replies: When an Investigation notification is replied to
                • Investigation Late Replies: When the reply to an Investigation notification is late
                • Investigation Follow-Up Reply message: When an Investigation Follow-Up message has been replied to
                • Investigation Replies Accepted: When the reply to an Investigation has been accepted
                • Investigation Replies Rejected: When the reply to an Investigation has been rejected
                • Investigation Rejected Late Replies: When the reply to a rejected Investigation reply is late
                • Investigation Required Reply Follow-Up message: When an Investigation Notification has been replied to and a follow-up message is sent by the user who replied to the Investigation Notification
                • Investigation Escalation: When the late reply to an Investigation is escalated
                • Investigation Escalation Replies: When the Escalation notification, that was issued when the reply to an Investigation request was late, has been replied to
Tasks & Correction
                • Task Reminder: When an Assigned User or Group have been informed that they have a Task, including a Close interval task, to perform before its due date
                • Task Overdue: When a Task, including a Close interval task, for an Assigned User or Group has not been completed by its due date
                • Task Escalation: When a Task, including a Close interval task, has been escalated to a user because it was not completed by its due date by the Assigned User or Group
Complaint closure
                • Close Reminder: When an Assigned User or Group have been informed that they need to close the complaint by a specific date
                • Close Overdue: When the closure of the complaint has not been completed by the Assigned User or Group by its due date
                • Close Escalation: When the closure of a complaint has been escalated to a user because it was not completed by its due date
                • Final Review: When a Complaint is to go through its final review prior to closure (Log User as well)
                • Rejected Final Review: When the user who was assigned to perform the final review has refused to close the Complaint as they feel that work still needs to be done
                • Closed Complaint: When a Complaint has been closed (Log User as well)
                • Reactivated Complaints: When a Complaint that has been closed is reactivated by a Super Admin, or Complaint Admin, and assigned to an Assigned User or Group to manage (Log User as well)
                • Feedback Request: When the Complainant has received a request to provide feedback.
                • Feedback Received: When the Complainant has provided feedback after the relevant Complaint was in the status of Final Review or Closed, as per Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings, in the Feedback object.

These notifications are also supported by email notifications. Where “Log User as well” appears, this means that the user, but not a Complaint Admin, who logged the Complaint will also receive a copy of the same notification to inform them that there has been a change in the Complaint’s status. These “Log User” notifications are only to inform and there is no task for the Log User to perform.


            ▪ Complaint Status
A Complaint will go through various statuses from registration to closing. The status of a Complaint is shown in words on the Details object header of the Details section on the Properties page and on the Action Required, My Complaints or the All Complaints listing pages. The statuses are as follows:
                • Logged: When the Complaint is registered into the system but has not been assigned or rejected
                • Assigned: When a Complaint is assigned to an Assigned User or Group to manage
                • Rejected: When the Complaint has been rejected. A rejected Complaint can be re- assigned into the workflow
                • Investigation: When an Investigation notice has been sent
                • CAPA: when a CAPA has been recorded in the CAPA module using the Record New CAPA tab in the Complaint.
                • Final Review: When the Complaint has passed into the review stage prior to closure
                • Rejected Final Review: When the Complaint has had its review stage rejected by the user who was assigned the review
                • Closed: When the Complaint has been closed
                • Reactivated: This is when a Complaint that has been Closed has been reactivated by a Super Admin or a Complaint Admin
The status of a Complaint will increment only from Logged to Assigned, Investigation, CAPA, Final Review etc.…, but will not reverse unless it is in the Rejected Final Review or the Reactivated status. The various Status of a Complaint can be changed in the Status section of Set-Up.

        6.2 Set-Up
Before starting to use the Complaints module there are some important set-up elements that need to be performed. These are found in the Admin section, which is only available to the Super Admins and to a limited extent to users with Database selected on their Permissions page. They are also found in the Set-Up section of the Complaints module, which is only available to users who have Set-Up activated on the Permissions page. Note that by default Super Admins are one of them. They are as follows:

Admin Section:
This is available to the Super Admins and to users who have Database activated on their Permissions page and is described in full in Chapter 3 above. As a rule, set-up elements are in the Admin Section if they influence two or more modules. These are:
            ▪ Customers: Add a list of Customers that can be used when registering a Complaint. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New Complaints page. A Customer can be both an originator and the subject of a Complaint. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first Complaint.
            ▪ Suppliers: Add a list of Suppliers that can be used when registering a Complaint. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New Complaints page. A Supplier can be both an originator and the subject of a Complaint. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first Complaint.
            ▪ Employees: Add a list of Employees that can be used when registering a Complaint. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New Complaints page. An Employee can be both an originator and the subject of a Complaint. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first Complaint.
            ▪ Various: This is a catch all list of Complainants that are not Customers, Suppliers or Employees. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New Complaints page. They can only be used as the originator of a Complaint. Make sure that you have added, deactivated, made mandatory and/or changed the order using drag and drop of the fields in the Add Fields section before you have recorded your first Complaint.
            ▪ Products: Add a list of Products that can be used when registering a Complaint. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New Complaints page. Products can only be the subject of a Complaint. Make sure that you have created the additional Product Fields, reordered them using drag and drop and/or made them mandatory in the Add Fields section before recording your first Complaint.
            ▪ Processes: Add a list of Processes that can be used when registering a Complaint. A full list can be pre-loaded or they can be added on the fly from the New Complaints page. Processes can only be the subject of a Complaint. Make sure that you have created the additional Process Fields, reordered them using drag and drop and/or made them mandatory in the Add Fields section before recording your first Complaint.
            ▪ Others: Create up to three new databases of Others, being Others 1, Others 2 and Others 3 each of which can have their name changed, that can be used when registering a Complaint. These new databases can be both be the source (From) and the subject (About) of a Complaint. Make sure that you have created the additional Product Fields, reordered them using drag and drop and/or made them mandatory in the Add Fields section before recording your first Complaint.

            ▪ Numbering: the starting number of the third numbering field can be edited here for each of the Non-Conformance, Root Cause and Correction numbering systems. However, the first and second fields cannot be edited.
Note that if the Non-Conformance module is activated then the managing of NC numbers will be done in the Set-Up section of the Non-Conformance module. Similarly, if the CAPA module is activated then the managing of the RC numbers will be done in the Set-Up section of the CAPA module. This section is only available to Super Admins.
            ▪ NC, RC & Correction Fields: Add up to twenty five (25) additional fields for the Non- Conformance menu link, Root Cause menu link and manage the sections for the Correction menu link and create up to a maximum of twenty five (25) fields for each section.
Note that if the Non-Conformance module is activated then the managing of the NC fields will be done in the Set-Up section of the Non-Conformance module. Similarly, if the CAPA module is activated then the managing of the RC fields will be done in the Set-Up section of the CAPA module. This section is only available to Super Admins.


Set-Up in Complaints:
This section which is accessible by clicking on the Set-Up icon in the Complaints module is available to Super Admins and Complaint Admins only. These are as follows:
            ▪ Fields: For the Super Admins only, there are two (2) menu links being the Fixed Fields menu link and the New Fields menu link. On the Fixed Fields menu link, some titles on the From/About and Details sections can be changed. On the New Fields menu link up to twenty five (25) fields can be listed to complement the details section of the Complaint. The new fields can be small text boxes, large text boxes, drop-down lists or date fields. Note that the Fixed Fields menu link is not available to Complaint Admins.
            ▪ Number: This permits the creation of alternative numbering systems to that available as default in isoTracker.
            ▪ From/About: This permits the activating and deactivating of options on the From and About drop-down lists on the New Complaints page as well as the reordering of the items on the relevant drop-down lists using drag and drop.
            ▪ Keywords: These are used to help with the Complaints search facility. A list of searchable keywords can be created here and then easily added to a Complaint on the New Complaints page or using the Edit function once it’s logged by the relevant users
            ▪ Responsibility: There are two menu links being the Assigned Users and the Final Review Users menu links. On the Assigned Users menu link, while Complaint Admins cannot be removed, users, who are not Complaint Admins, can be selected to have Complaints assigned to them to manage. In addition, Groups of Complaint Admins and Assigned Users can be created here and to which a Complaint can also be assigned to. On the Final Review Users menu link while Complaint Admins are listed as default users they can be removed and any other user can be added to sign off Complaints at the Final Review stage. The Final Review Users menu link will be deactivated if the two-step closure feature of a Complaint has been deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings.
            ▪ Severity: There are three (3) menu links being the Scale, Reminder and SLA Emails menu links which permit the creation of a Severity scale and to assign time based Tasks, Closure interval tasks, escalation rules and reminders for each Severity
            ▪ Dispatch: This permits the creation of rules where a logged Complaint can be automatically sent for review by, or assigned to, a user or a grouping of users. The
default setting is always that a Complaint is sent for review to Complaint Admins and can then only be assigned by them
            ▪ RMA: This permits the creation of multiple RMA numbering systems. It also permits the creation, editing and deleting of fields in each of the three (3) sections of the RMA object which are Returned Parts, Replacement Parts and Repaired Parts
            ▪ Status: Edit the default Status names used in the Complaint workflow process.
            ▪ Email: There are two (2) menu links being the Complainant Notifications and Set Reply to Rules for Emails menu links. On the Complainant Notifications menu link you can create email templates that can be sent to the Complainant at the various events in the workflow of a Complaint. These templates can be modified prior to sending. On the Set Reply to Rules for Emails menu link you can set global “Reply To” protocols for your Complainant Notification emails
            ▪ Action Required: Change the fields from the default that you want displayed on the Action Required page. There is a maximum limit of 10 fields that can be displayed and the changes will also appear on the My Complaints and the All Complaints pages.
            ▪ Object Activate/Deactivate: Create new objects, change the order of objects using drag and drop, deactivate objects including the CAPA objects and also rename objects except for the CAPA objects. Also change some of the default settings. This feature is only available to Super Admins.
            ▪ Bulk Reassign Complaints: Reassign Complaints in any of the open status, except for Final Review, from one user/group to another. Also reassign Complaints in the status of Final Review from one user/group to another. Note that the last feature is only available to Super Admins.
            ▪ Delete Complaints: This is only available to Super Admins and permits the deletion of Complaints that are in the Status of Logged, Assigned, Reactivated, Rejected or Closed.
            ▪ Webform: Activate the fields that need to appear on a web form which permits the logging of a Complaint from the website of an isoTracker account holder
Each of these Set-Up features in the Complaints module are explained in detail in the following paragraphs.
    • Fields
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the Fixed Fields menu link, which is only available to Super Admins, and the New Fields menu link each described as follows:

Fixed Fields:
This is the default menu link when this section is opened, but does not appear if you are not a Super Admin. It permits you to edit the fields on the From/About and Details sections. Click on the little pen on the left of any of the titles, make your modifications when the text box opens and then click on the Save icon to confirm the changes. The titles on the New Complaints and Complaints Properties page that can be changed are:
        ◦ Date
        ◦ Number
        ◦ From
        ◦ About
        ◦ Severity
The changes will be reflected on all Complaints past, current and future.


New Fields:
This feature permits you to create up to twenty three (23) additional fields above the Details section of a Complaint. Each of these Complaint fields can be a drop-down list, a text box, a large text box or a date field.

There are already two (2) default fields which are the Type and the Format Received drop down lists which are both populated with options. Note that the Type field cannot be deleted
or deactivated but it can be made mandatory and edited using the Edit icon. The Format Received field along with any added fields can be edited and also be made mandatory by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column making the changes in the boxes that appear above and then clicking on Submit. The options for each of these two fields can be added to by clicking on the + icon under the Action column, typing them in one at a time in the Option Value box that appears above and clicking on Submit. The options can be edited by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column of the options listing, making the changes in the Option Value box above and clicking on Submit. Their order can be changed using drag and drop.
To create a New Field, click on the Add Fields button at the top. Select the Field Type, give it a Name, and click on Submit. If you have selected Drop Down in Field Type then you will be asked to populate the drop-down list by entering them one at a time in the Option Values box and then clicking on Submit. When completed you can change the order of the Option Values using drag and drop.

Fields can be moved within their location using drag and drop. Fields that have been used cannot be deleted nor can the options in a drop-down list be deleted when they have been used. They can however be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column which then changes to Inactive.

    • Number
This permits you to create your own numbering system either as an alternative to the default Complaint numbering system in isoTracker or in addition to it. The multiple Numbering systems could be assigned to a different “type” of Complaint where the definition of “type” is entirely up to you and the numbering system could be used to assign a different number for Complaints from customers as compared to from suppliers. Similarly, it could be used to assign a different number to a Complaint received by one factory versus another received by a different factory.

To create different numbering systems, click on the Add Number button at the top. There are now four (4) fields as follows:
        ◦ Number: This is basically the code for the numbering system. It could be an abbreviation or a description.
        ◦ First Section: This section is static and can have a minimum of two (2) alphanumeric characters and a maximum of four (4).
        ◦ Second Section: This represents the last two (2) digits of the year which will default to the current year and cannot be changed. It will increment at the beginning of a new year.
        ◦ Third Section: This section is the number that increments with each Complaint and will only accept numbers. Place the starting number for the relevant numbering system here entering a number from 1 to 999. If you enter 25 the first number assigned to a Complaint will be 0025 and then the next one will be 0026. This number will reset to 1 at the beginning of a new year.
Once assigned to a Complaint a numbering system cannot be deleted but it can be edited. We would however, recommend that you do not edit it but rather deactivate and create a new numbering system.
    • From/About
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the From List menu link and the About List
menu link each described as follows:

From List:
This is the listing of the types of complainants that appear on the From drop down list on the New Complaints page. This list appears in the following order:
    • Customers
    • Suppliers
    • Users (+ External Users if activated)
    • Employees
    • Various
    • Others 1
    • Others 2
    • Others 3

As explained in the Admin section of this manual these titles can be changed, except for Users, but only in the Admin section which is available to the Super Admins and Standard Users who have access to the Database section in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions. In this section, they can be reordered as well as deactivated. The option at the top of the list will appear as the default on the From drop down list when the New Complaints page is opened, so it is a good idea to have at the top of the list the type which most frequently issues Complaints. The list is reordered using drag and drop with items being deactivated from the list by clicking on the words Active under the Action column. Deactivated items can then be reactivated by clicking on the words Inactive again under the Action column.

About List:
This is the listing of the subject types of Complaints that appear on the About drop-down list on the New Complaints page. This list appears in the following order:
        ◦ Products
        ◦ Processes
        ◦ Users (+ External Users if activated)
        ◦ Customers
        ◦ Suppliers
        ◦ Employees
        ◦ Various
        ◦ Others 1
        ◦ Others 2
        ◦ Others 3

The titles of these items can be changed in the Admin section, except for Users, which is available to Super Admins and Users who have access to the Database section in Admin > Manage Users > Permissions. This list can be reordered as well as have items deactivated in this section. The listing at the top of the list will appear as the default on the About drop-down list when the New Complaints page is opened, so it is a good idea to have at the top of the list the type that is most often the subject of Complaints. The list is ordered using drag and drop with items being deactivated from the list by clicking on the words Active under the Action column. Deactivated items can then be reactivated by clicking on the words Inactive again under the Action column.

    • Keywords
This feature permits you to create a list of Keywords that can be added to a Complaint at most stages of a Complaint’s workflow by a user who is the Log User (only in Logged Status), a Complaint Admin or the Assigned Users. Keywords are used to facilitate the Complaint’s search functionality.

To add a Keyword, click on the Add a Keyword button at the top and then enter your keywords one at a time clicking on the Submit button when your list is complete. Use the Bulk Upload functionality to upload an Excel list of Keywords. Keywords added on the Keyword object on a Complaints properties page will also be added to this list.
Added keywords are listed at the bottom of the list. Once a keyword has been used in isoTracker it can no longer be deleted but it can be deactivated. Keywords can also be added at the Complaint level and be reused in other Complaints.
    • Responsibility
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the Assigned Users menu link and the Final Review Users menu link each described as follows:
Assigned Users:
By default, a Complaint can only be assigned to a Complaint Admin from the status of Logged. This feature permits the addition of standard users who are NOT Complaint Admins to be added to the list.
Search for the staff member you want added by entering a word string of their first or last name in the Filter box which narrows the listing below, then highlight the staff member on the left-hand box and click on the right pointing arrow above to transfer them to the right-hand box. Complaint Admins cannot be removed from the list in the right-hand box; however, standard users can be removed from the list by highlighting them on the right-hand box and clicking on the left pointing arrow above. Click on the Submit button to confirm your selection. We refer to the users listed on the right-hand box as Assigned Users, being users who can have Complaints assigned to them.
In addition on this menu link groups of users that are Assigned Users can be created here and to which Complaints can be assigned or reassigned to as a group meaning that all members of that group can manage the relevant Complaint.

Final Review Users:
When a Complaint is sent for Final Review by default it can only be assigned to a Complaint Admin. This feature permits the addition of standard users who are NOT Complaint Admins to be added to the list of users who have the right to Close a Complaint. It also permits the removal of that right for Complaint Admins. This menu link will be deactivated if Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings the “Activate Final Review before closing” feature is deselected.
Search for the staff member you want added by entering a word string of their first or last name in the Filter box which narrows the listing below, then highlight the staff member on the left-hand box and click on the right pointing arrow above to transfer them to the right-hand box. Standard users as well as Complaint Admins can be removed from the list by highlighting them on the right-hand box and clicking on the left pointing arrow above. Click on the Submit button to confirm your selection. We refer to the users listed on the right-hand box as Final Review Users, being users who can have Complaints sent to them for Final Review.


    • Severity
In this section the Severity scale is created, Tasks and a Close delay can be associated with each Severity, escalation rules can be set and reminder notifications scheduled. There are three (3) menu links being Scale, Reminder and SLA Emails with the Scale menu link being the default opening menu link.

Scale:
The default Severity Scale is 1 to 3 with 1 being the most severe and 3 being the least severe. You may change this setting by first selecting the top range in your scale from the Select Severity Scale drop down list which goes up to 10 and then from the Select Most Severe drop-down list, which will display the lowest and highest number in your selected scale, select the number that is the most severe in your scale. You can also make Severity a mandatory field by selecting the tick box on the left of Make Mandatory Field. Click on Submit to activate the changes. Note that there is also a default option named N/A for “Non- Applicable” at the bottom and this is probably more relevant when the Severity fields are mandatory thereby allowing some flexibility if the person logging the Complaint is unsure about the Severity of the Complaint. This option can be deactivated if not required.

Each of the options names in the Severity drop down list can be changed from their default number to anything else by clicking on the green Edit icon under the Action column. Enter
the new name in the edit boxes that appear above, you can also select a color for that option by selecting one from the color palette that appears. Remember to click on Submit to confirm your changes. Do this to all the active Severity options. Once a color is selected for one Severity option then you should do so for all the other options as those that do not have a color will be listed on the Action Required page in white and those that have a color will be listed with their relevant colors.

To add a Close interval for a Severity, click on the Properties icon on the Action column and the add Close interval boxes appear below the relevant Severity. Select an interval from the two (2) Close Within drop down lists and then select a user to escalate to if the Close time has been exceeded from the Escalate To drop down lists which will have only the users listed on the right-hand box in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users. Note that if Select Working Days/Hours have been activated in Admin > Select Time Zone then the intervals will take account of your working days and hours and skip the periods that you are not working. Click on Submit to add the Close interval to that Severity. It is important to create your Close interval first before your Tasks as all Tasks can only be scheduled before the Close interval.


To add Tasks to a Severity click on the + icon on the Action column and the Add Task boxes appear on the next page. Select a Task from the list of default Tasks on the drop down list or create and add a new Task to the list by creating it in the box at the top of the drop down list and then using the carriage return function on your keyboard to add it to the list.
Select an interval for that Task from the two (2) Task Within drop down lists and, if you wish, identify a user to have this Task escalated to if it is not completed by the due date. Multiple tasks can be added to each Severity and will be listed in the order of their interval with the Close action always being the last one.
Note that there are the following default Tasks:

    • Send Email in Status of Logged: When this Task is selected then the top email of the Event Status of Logged listed in Set-Up > Email > Complainant Notifications will be automatically sent to the complainants when the Complaint is recorded in isoTracker. It is therefore a good idea to have that set as the first Task. Note that this is the only fully automated Task
    • Send Email in Status of Assigned: This Task is completed when an email of the Event Status of Assigned is manually selected and sent either from the Assign To object or from the Templates in the Email object. The completion of the Task is automatically recorded in the Notes object
    • Send Email in Status of Investigation: This Task is completed when an email of the Event Status of Investigation is manually selected and sent either from the Investigation object or from the Templates in the Email object. The completion of the Task is automatically recorded in the Notes object
    • Send Email in Status of CAPA: This Task is completed when an email of the Event Status of CAPA is manually selected and sent from the Templates in the Email object. The completion of the Task is automatically recorded in the Notes object
    • Send Email in Status of Final Review: This Task is completed when an email of the Event Status of Final Review is manually selected and sent either from the Final Review object or from the Templates in the Email object. The completion of the Task is automatically recorded in the Notes object
    • Send Email in Status of Closed: This Task is completed when an email of the Event Status of Closed is manually selected and sent either when closing the Complaint or from the Templates in the Email object. The completion of the Task is automatically recorded in the Notes object
    • Call Complainant: This Task is an entirely manual Task which must also be completed manual in the Notes object once the Complaint has been is at least in the Status of Assigned
    • Send Email to Complainant: This Task is performed when an email is manually sent using the Send Email feature in the Email object. The completion of the Task is automatically recorded in the Notes object
The Tasks and the Close intervals added in this section then become the default tasks on every Complaint with that particular Severity. Additional, one-off Complaint specific Tasks will be able to be added at the Complaint level in the Notes object.
Reminder:
There are two (2) menu links being Task Reminder and Close Reminder. Each has a list of reminders before and after the due date. By default the reminder at the due date is activated and reminders before and after the due date can be activated by clicking on the word Inactive under the Action column. Then determine who should get the reminders from the Assigned Admin and/or the Escalate User by having the word Yes appear in the relevant column. Click on the word Yes, or No, to change it. Do this in each of the menu links for Task Reminder and Close Reminder.

SLA Emails:
On this menu link are listed the templates for each of the reminders. These cannot be edited or added to and so act simply as a guide to what will be sent out. If you wish to change some of the templates on your account then please contact your isoTracker representative.
    • Dispatch
Automated Dispatch rules can be set so that certain types or category of Complaints can be automatically assigned to certain users or groups. There is one default Dispatch rule that always remains which is that when a Complaint is logged it is automatically sent for review to the Super Admins and Complaint Admins and then one of whom can then either assign it to a user or group of users or reject it. This default Dispatch rule is called All Administrators and additional Dispatch rules can be created to run before it. It is important to understand that the Dispatch rules have an order and that order is from top to bottom in the listing. So when a Complaint is logged in the system, and if it has NOT been immediately assigned, it will go through the Dispatch rules starting with the one at the top of the list and go down the list until it matches one of the rules with the All Administrators rule always being the backstop rule.

To add a rule click on the Add Dispatch Rule button at the top, give the rule a name which must be unique then set the Conditions that this rule must meet. First select from the Condition 1 drop down list which has the following options:
        ◦ Number: being the title of a Complaints numbering
        ◦ From: being any content in whom the Complaint is From
        ◦ About: being any content in what the Complaint is About
        ◦ Type: being the content of the Type field
        ◦ Severity: being the Severity of the Complaint
        ◦ Owner: being the name of the person who logged the Complaint into the system

Then from the next drop down list select the filter rule which has the following options:
        ◦ Is: meaning that the condition has to match the filter name
        ◦ Is Not: meaning that the condition is anything except the filter name
        ◦ Contains: meaning that the filter name must have contain word or word string
        ◦ Does not Contain: meaning that the filter name must NOT contain that word or word string

Then in the 3rd drop down list on the right either type in your filter name in the box that appears at the top or select from the options below.
Each Dispatch rule can have a maximum of two (2) conditions which MUST BOTH be met for the Action to be completed. If a 2nd Condition is required then it can be selected from the Condition 2 drop down lists. If a 2nd Condition is NOT required then it is a good idea not to add one.
Now create the Action that is required to be performed when ALL the Conditions of a rule have been met. From the first Action drop down list select one of the following options:
        ◦ Accept & Assign To: meaning that the complaint is automatically assigned to a user or group that is on the list in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users menu link in the Status of Assigned
        ◦ Send for Review To: meaning that the Complaint is sent for review by an individual Complaint Admin in the status of Logged who then must either assign it to a user or group or reject it
Then select the relevant user or group from the drop-down list on the right. Click on Submit to create the rule which then gets added to the bottom of the listing just above the All Administrators rule. Use drag and drop to move it to the order in which it should be run.
Remember that the first rule to be run is the one at the top, if it is not met then the system will move down to the next rule down, if it has been met then the system will stop at that rule and complete the action of that rule. If none of the added rules are met then the system will comply to the All Administrators rule.


    • RMA
If the RMA object is activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects then this section will also be activated. There are four (5) menu links in the RMA section being RMA Number, Returned Parts, Replacement Parts, Repaired Parts and Settings. On this section the following actions can be performed:
        ◦ RMA Number: Edit the field name “RMA Number” to another name plus create multiple numbering systems for the RMA object. Edit the name by clicking on the pen icon on the left of the words “RMA Number” which are displayed on the top left of the number listing, enter the new name in the edit text box that appears and click on the Save icon. To create an additional number click on the + icon next to Add a New RMA Number and then follow the same process as when adding a number in Set-Up > Number.
        ◦ Returned Parts: Edit the name of the Returned Parts section the same way that it is done in RMA Number. Also there are default fields for that section and these can be added to, edited or deleted. There can be a maximum of 20 fields.
        ◦ Replacement Parts: Edit the name of the Replacement Parts section the same way that it is done in RMA Number. Also there are default fields for that section and these can be added to, edited or deleted. There can be a maximum of 20 fields.
        ◦ Repaired Parts: Edit the name of the Repaired Parts section the same way that it is done in RMA Number. Also there are default fields for that section and these can be added to, edited or deleted. There can be a maximum of 20 fields.
        ◦ To create a new field in the Returned Parts, Replacement Parts and Repaired Parts menu links click on the Add Field button at the top, select the Field Type, give it a Name, determine if it should be mandatory and click on Submit. If you have selected Drop Down in Field Type then you will be asked to populate the drop-down list by entering the Option Values one at a time and then clicking on Submit when you have entered your list. When completed you can alter the order of the Option Values using drag and drop. Edit fields by clicking on Edit icon on the Action column, make your changes in the boxes that appear at the top and click on Submit. Fields that have not been used can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the Action column. Fields that have been used cannot be deleted nor can the options of a drop-down list be deleted when they have been used. They can however be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column which then changes to Inactive.
        ◦ Settings: On this menu link can be deactivated either the Returned Parts, Replacement Parts and/or the Repaired Parts section as long as one section is left active. A section is deactivated by clicking on the word Active in the Status column and it will change to Inactive. If that section has already been used and there is content in it, then a pop-up warning message saying “This section has content in
existing complaints. If it’s deactivated, that data will be lost. Are you sure that you want to deactivate it?”, click OK to confirm the deactivation of that section and the loss of any prior content or Cancel to leave that section active so as not to lose any prior content.

    • Status
Listed on this page are the default titles for each of the Status in the Complaint workflow process. These are:
        ◦ Logged
        ◦ Assigned
        ◦ Rejected
        ◦ Reactivated
        ◦ Investigation
        ◦ CAPA
        ◦ Final Review
        ◦ Rejected Final Review
        ◦ Closed

You may edit any or all of them by clicking on the relevant Edit icon under the Action column, making your modifications in the Status text box that appears at the top and then clicking on Submit. Changes are immediately reflected on all Complaints in the system past, present and future.


Note that a Status cannot be deleted.

    • Emails
There are two (2) menu links in this section, the Complainant Notifications menu link and the Set Reply to Rules for Emails menu link each described as follows:
Complainant Notifications:
During the process of assigning and managing a Complaint, email notifications can be sent to the complainants to update them on the status of their Complaint. This option enables the creation of specific templates that can be used at the various workflow status levels of a Complaint. The emails can then be modified before being sent to the complainants at the relevant stage of the Complaint resolution process. Email templates that are not related to any status can also be created here and sent to the complainant, or other people, from the Email object using the Send Email feature.

To create an email template, click on the Add Notification button at the top. Enter a unique title for the email. Use the drop-down list to select the Status that the template refers to. If you want to create a template that does not relate to a specific status then select Other from the Status drop down list. Then enter the subject, the body text and the sign off or signature. Note that macros can be added at any place in the body and signature text by clicking on an item in the list on the right. When the email is sent out it will match the macro with the relevant details of the Complaint. So {First Name} will identify the First Name of the complainant and place it on that spot in the email. The {Number} macro will place the Number of the relevant Complaint in that spot on the email when it is selected to be sent out. Click Submit to save the template.
The macros for Complainant Notifications are:
    • {First Name}: for the complainant’s first name
    • {Last Name}: for the complainant’s last name
    • {Company}: for the complainant’s company
    • {Number}: for the Complaint’s number
    • {Type}: for the Complaint’s Type
    • {Job Title}: for the complainant’s job title
    • {About}: for the details of what the Complaint is about
    • {Log User}: for the name of the user who logged the Complaint into isoTracker
    • {Assigned User/Group}: for the name of the user or user group who is responsible for managing the Complaint
    • {User}: for the name of the logged-in user sending the email
    • {Log Date}: for the date the Complaint was logged on
    • {Status}: for the status of the Complaint
    • {Ageing Days}: for the number of days since the Complaint was logged
    • {Task Name}: for the name of the next Task
    • {Task Days}: for the number of days until the next Task is due
    • {Task Due Date}: for the due date of the next Task as well as the due date of the Close task if that is the next task
    • {Advance Notice}: for the time before the due date for Tasks and Close that an email is sent out
    • {Late Notice}: for the time after the due date for Tasks and Close that an email is sent out
    • {Close Days}: for the number of days until when the Close date is due
    • {Escalate User}: for the name of the user who has the late Task or Close escalated to
    • {Feedback Properties Link}: for the link that is used to solicit Feedback in the Feedback emails which when clicked on opens only the From/About, Details, Containment and Feedback objects of the relevant Complaints. This feature should only be used to solicit feedback from the complainants. This macro converts to “here” in the email sent to the complainant which is a link to the Complaint properties page
    • {Properties Link}: for the link to the properties page of the relevant Complaint which when clicked on will open the entire details of the Complaint including all activated objects. This macro converts to “here” in the email sent to the complainant which is a link to the Complaint properties page
    • {Event Link}: this opens the Complaint at the Notes object after the user has logged in to their isoTracker account

Multiple templates can be created for each Status but they each must have a different Email Title.
To view or modify an existing template, click on its Edit icon on the Action column, enter your modifications and click Submit to save your entry. Emails templates cannot be deleted if they have been sent out at least once to a complainant. They can however be de-activated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column. This can be reversed by clicking on the words Inactive.

There are two pre-created Email templates at the top of the list. These refer to the Feedback object and are respectively automatically sent out to the complainant once the Complaint is either in Final Review or Closed depending on the settings on the Settings menu link of the Object Activate/Deactivate section but only if the Feedback object is Activated on the Objects menu link . These Feedback emails are pre-created because they are only useful if the
{Feedback Properties Link} macro is placed in them thereby giving the complainant access to the From/About, Details and Containment sections of the Complaint in question and its Feedback object where they can enter their feedback comments. These templates can be edited but cannot be deleted, except if the Feedback object is deactivated then they cannot be edited.

Set Reply To Rules for Emails:
There is also a feature for assigning a Reply To Name and Email for the templates that are sent to the complainants during the Complaints management workflow. There are three (3) alternatives as follows:
    • Send from and receive in isoTracker: This will send the email from and replies will go to support@3.isotrackermail.com and will be listed in the Emails object
    • Send from isoTracker using user’s email address but do not receive in isoTracker: This will display the name and email address of your staff member as listed in isoTracker who is administering the relevant Complaint. The sending email address will be @3.isotrackermail.com and the emails can be replied to and will be received in the email box of your staff member who sent it out and not in isoTracker
    • Set Global Reply to Name and Email: This will set a global Reply To Name and Email address to all templates sent by any Complaint Admin to all complainants. The sending email address will still be @3.isotrackermail.com but the emails can be replied to and will be received in the email box that you have specified. When this alternative is selected, you will be asked to enter the Global Reply To Name and Global Reply To Email in the relevant text boxes

Click on Submit when you have completed your selection.
    • Action Required
This section has two (2) features being:

        ◦ Identifying which is the default opening page on the Action required page from the options of All Open (default), Overdue (listed only if Tasks and/or a Close date have been created), Due Today (listed only if Tasks have been created), Due Tomorrow (listed only if Tasks and/or a Close date have been created) and Unassigned (default). Select from the list which one you want to open by default when the Action Required page is opened. The selection also applies to the My Complaints and the All Complaints pages
        ◦ Permitting the selection of fields that are displayed as columns on the Action Required, My Complaints and All Complaints pages. A maximum of 10 fields can be displayed with the Action field being a default field that cannot be removed or have its order changed. To add a field, first remove any fields you do not want by clicking on the Delete icon. Then add a Field using the Add Field button at the top, select a field to list on the Action Required page on the Field drop-down list and click on Submit. The order of fields can be changed using drag and drop.
    • Object Activate/Deactivate
The Object Activate/Deactivate feature, which is only available to Super Admins, has two menu links being the Objects menu link and the Settings menu link.


Objects:
This is the default menu link when this section is opened and permits the creation of new objects and the reordering of objects using drag and drop and for deactivating objects in the Complaints module except for the From/About, Details and Final Review/Close objects. It also permits the editing of the name of the objects.
The default list of activated objects is:
    • From/About
    • Details
    • Containment
    • Notes
    • Documents
    • Keywords
    • RMA
    • Payment
    • Emails
    • Investigation
    • Non-Conformance
    • Root Cause
    • Correction
    • CAPA
    • Risk Analysis (if the Risk module is part of the subscription)
    • Feedback
    • Final Review/Close
Up to two (2) new objects can also be created. This is done by clicking on the + icon next to the Add Object button at the top, entering the name of the new object and then selecting the tick box next to Text Editor to activate a text editor, if the ability to enter text in the object is required, and the tick box next to File Upload to activate an external document upload, then click on Submit. The object is then added at the bottom of the list and can now have up to twenty five (25) additional fields added to it. To add these fields, click on the + icon in the Action column of that new object and then on the Add Field button at the top. Then select the field type you want from Drop Down, Textbox, Large Textbox or Date, select Make Field Mandatory, if you want to make the field mandatory, give it a name and then click on Submit. If the additional field is a Drop-Down list you will be asked to create option items for that list. Enter those options one at a time and then click on Submit when you have your complete list. Use drag and drop to rearrange the order of the options as well as the order of the fields. Click on Close to go back to the listing of all the objects. The new object can now have its order changed using drag and drop.

The following rules apply to this section:
    • When editing the activated fields in a new object, a field cannot be deleted if content has already been entered in that field but it can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column.
    • The order of the objects can be changed using drag and drop except that the order of the fields in yellow such as the From/About section, the Details section and the Final Review/Close object cannot be changed
    • Objects can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column. They can also be reactivated by clicking on the word Inactive. The From/About, Details and Final Review/Close objects cannot be deactivated
    • Objects can also be renamed by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column and entering a new name in the Object Name text box that appears at the top and clicking on Submit. The Investigation object and the Non-Conformance, Root Cause and the CAPA tabs cannot be renamed

In addition, there are certain objects that need particular attention. These are:
    • The Payment object which permits you to record if a Payment to the complainant is required which by default is activated. The name of the object can be changed by clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column, making the changes in the Object Name box that appears at the top and then clicking on Submit. There are also four (4) fields being Reason, Method, Currency and Amount which can be accessed by clicking on the + icon under the Action column. The first three fields, Reason, Method and Currency, are drop down lists that have been pre-populated which can then be added to, edited and have items deleted. Additional fields can be added, up to a total of 25 fields, by clicking on the Add Field button at the top. To add an option to field that is a drop down list click on the + icon under the Action column of the relevant field and add to the options by typing in the Option Value box at the top. To edit an option click on the relevant Edit icon on the options listings page and make the changes in the Option Value box at the top. Click on Submit each time to confirm the changes. Also if some of the options are not required then deactivate them by clicking on the word Active on the Status column which changes to Inactive. The fourth field, Amount, is a text box so does not have any content.
    • The Feedback object will automatically send an email to the Complainants once a Complaint has reached the status of Final Review or Close, based on the settings on the Settings menu link in this section. By default the Feedback object has been deactivated. If you want to activate it click on the word Inactive which changes to Active. The name of the Feedback object can also be changed by clicking on the Edit icon, making the changes in the Object Name box that appears at the top and then click on Submit.
The options that the Complainants can select from in order to provide their feedback are listed by clicking on the + icon under the Action column and then can be edited by clicking on the relevant Edit icon on the options listings page. Click on Submit to confirm the changes. Also if some of the options are not required then deactivate them by clicking on the word Active on the Status column which changes to Inactive.
    • If you have the Risk module then you can record a Risk directly from an Assigned Complaint and this is done on the Risk Analysis object. But to ensure that you can do this the Risk Analysis object must be activated on this page
Settings:
This section permits the activation and deactivation of certain objects on the New Complaints and/or the Complaints Properties pages. The default setting is that all the relevant objects are activated. The features are as follows:
Closing:
    • “Activate Final Review before closing” is selected by default. This ensures that closing a Complaint is a two-step process with the status of Final Review prior to the closure where the Final Review stage provides the opportunity to review how the Complaint has been delt with. If done properly it can be closed or alternatively the Final Review process is rejected and the Complaint is returned to the Assigned Users who sent it to Final Review in the status of Rejected Final Review. To be able to close Complaints without sending them to the interim status of Final Review then deselect “Activate Final Review before closing” and instead of a Final Review object at the bottom of the Complaints page there will be a Close object.
    • “Make Final Review user and Assigned user be different” is only displayed if “Activate Final Review before closing” is selected and activates a rule whereby the user sending the complaint to Final Review cannot send it to themself. So this means that there must be at least two (2) Final Review users selected in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users and therefore if the Assigned User of the Complaint is also a Final Review User then they will NOT be listed in the Send To drop-down list on the Final Review object.
NC/RC Features:
    • If the Non-Conformance (NC) and the Root Cause (RC) tabs are activated in the Objects section then they will only appear once a Complaint has been Assigned. By selecting “Activate NC tab on the New Complaints page” the NC tab will appear on the New Complaints page. Similarly, when selecting “Activate RC tab on the New Complaints page” will have the RC tab activated on the New Complaints page. If the NC tab and/or the RC tab are deactivated on the Objects section then that feature will be greyed out on the Settings menu link.

RMA Object:
    • If the RMA object is activated on the Objects menu link it will only appear once a Complaint has been Assigned. By selecting “Activate RMA object on the New Complaints page” it is activated on the New Complaints page

Payment Object:
    • If the Payment object is activated on the Objects menu link it will only appear once a Complaint has been Assigned. By selecting “Activate Payment object on the New Complaints page” it is activated on the New Complaints page

Feedback Object:
    • If the Feedback object is activated on the Objects menu link then this section appears; otherwise if the Feedback object is deactivated on the Objects menu link then this section is greyed out
    • Select “Feedback Email after Complaint is in Final Review” to have a Feedback Request email be sent to the Complainants which will solicit them to click on a link in the email that will open the Complaints Properties page on which they will be able to enter comments in the Feedback objects.
    • Select “Feedback Email after Complaint is in Final Review” to have the Feedback Request email sent after the Complaint has been closed.

    • Bulk Reassign Complaints
This section which is only available to Super Admins, is where open Complaints can be reassigned from one user/group to another user/group to more than one Complaint at one time.
Select from the Responsibility drop down list one of the following options:
        ◦ Assigned Users
        ◦ Final Review Users
        ◦ Select Assigned Users and then on the From drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassign which will lead those Complaints assigned to that user or group to be displayed below. From the To drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassigned to. Then select the Complaints that you want reassigned on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked, the selected Complaints are reassigned to the user or group selected in the To drop down list. The Status drop down list on the right defaults to All but another status can be selected from the drop down list which further reduces the displayed Complaints when the From user or group has been selected.

        ◦ Select Final Review Users and then on the From drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassign which will lead those Complaints in the status of Final Review that are assigned to that user or group to be displayed below. From the To drop down list select the user or group that you want to reassigned to. Then select the Complaints that you want reassigned on the Action column and click on the Change button at the bottom left. A secondary pop-up appears and when the OK button is clicked the selected Complaints in the status of Final Review are reassigned to the user or group selected in the To drop down list.

    • Delete Complaints
This section is only available to Super Admins and permits the deletion of Complaints that are in the Status of Logged, Assigned, Reactivated, Rejected or Closed. It will not permit the deletion of Complaints in any other Status.

Click on the Delete icon under the Action column of the relevant Complaint and then enter the Super Admin’s password in the pop-up box to confirm the deletion. Failure to enter the correct password will cancel the process. Note that once a Complaint is deleted it CANNOT be recovered.

    • Web Form
A Web Form provides a means for you to have customers, or other types of stakeholders who are not users in isoTracker, to record complaints directly into your isoTracker account by placing a link on a website or an email. There are two features in this section. The first, at the top is the link to the Web Form which you should use at first to make sure that it meets with your requirements and obviously to use it for the live Web Form. The second, below the link you can use to set-up your Web Form using the From, About and Settings menu links.

By default the only field that is displayed on the Web Form is the Details section but other fields can be optionally added to the From section and/or the About section. These added fields are then associated with a database in the Admin section so that when a complaint is logged through the Web Form the From and the About data of that complaint is added to the relevant databases and can be reused. In addition, to the Details section a Web Form will always have a Captcha that must be completed correctly in order for the complaint to be logged into the system.

To add a field in the From section, click on the From menu link at the top, then select a database from the “Link to Database” drop down list. In the Field drop down list will be listed the active fields from the selected database in the Admin section. Select the field that you want to display on the Web Form, you can select Make Field Mandatory if you want the added field to be a mandatory field to be completed in the Web Form and then click on Submit.
Repeat the process to add any further fields remembering to use the same database. Up to 10 fields can be added to a Web Form on the From section. Repeat the same process for the About section.

Remember that additional fields do not need to be added in either the From or the About sections and that the default Details section is sufficient to log a complaint on a Web Form. Once a complaint is logged on a Web Form additional information can be added to it in all the sections including the From and About sections using the Edit functions before the complaint is moved to the Assigned status.


Use the Settings menu link to activate a Document Upload feature on your Web Form so that your stakeholders could, for example, add images to their complaint.
        6.3 Logging a Complaint
All users can log a Complaint. To log a Complaint, open the Complaints module by clicking on the Complaints icon, then click on the New Complaints icon at the top left to open the New Complaints page.


This page has the following features:
            ▪ Date and Number
When the New Complaints page opens the Date at the top left will be set to the current time of your isoTracker account. This can be changed to a date and time in the past or in the future and can be the date that the Complaint was received, for example.

The Number section on the top right will be set to Complaint if you have not created any other numbering systems. However, if you have created additional numbering system then you will need to select a Numbering System from the drop-down list

            ▪ From and About
A Complaint has to be From somebody and About something or somebody. The default setting is that a Complaint is From a Customer and About a Product, but you can select alternatives from the relevant drop-down lists. You can also change the default setting as explained in the From/About List section in Set-Up. Note that the details of whom a Complaint is From and what it is About can be edited during the Complaint management process. Both sections are mandatory.
Identify who the Complaint is From by using the drop-down list at the top left. The choice is from a Customer (default), a Supplier, an Employee, a User, Various and the three Others each of which can be deactivated and reordered in Set-Up > From/About. They can also have content added to it prior to recording a Complaint in the Admin section or can be added
to it when recording the details on the New Complaints page. Then click on the box on the right to list the items in the selected database which can be narrowed down by entering a word string. You can also click on the hamburger button on the right which will open a tab displaying the letters of the alphabet which can be clicked on to narrow the displayed list of database items starting with that letter. Once an item is selected then it will be displayed below. If some of the boxes are blank text boxes, then data can be entered into them on this page. Up to three (3) items can be selected for the From section by adding another one once one has been selected.
Identify what or whom the Complaint is About and this is done by selecting from the relevant About drop down list on the left. The choice is Product (default), Process, Customer, Supplier, Employee, Users, Various and the three Others each of which can be deactivated and reordered in Set-Up > From/About. They can also have content added to it prior to recording a Complaint in the Admin section or can be added to it when recording the details on the New Complaints page. Then click on the box on the right to list the items in the selected database which can be narrowed down by entering a word string. You can also click on the hamburger button on the right which will open a tab displaying the letters of the alphabet which can be clicked on to narrow the displayed list to database items starting with that letter. Once an item is selected then it will be displayed below. If some of the boxes are blank text boxes, then data can be entered into them on this page (a typical blank field could for example be Batch Number for Products). Up to three (3) items can be selected for the About section by adding another one once one has been selected.

If the search result does not come up with your expected result, then the details you require can be added in the relevant list by clicking on the “or Add New” link which is located below the About or the Parties boxes.


            ▪ Complaint Details
The key feature in this section is the details of the Complaint which must be entered in the
Details text box. Other information which can be made mandatory is as follows:
                • Severity: Select from the drop-down list based on your internal rules.
                • Type: Select from the drop-down list of the existing Complaint types. Additional options to the Type drop down can be added in Set-Up > Fields > New Fields.
                • Format Received: Email, Fax, Letter, Telephone, etc.…
                • Fields: If you have created New Fields in the Fields section of Set-Up then these will be listed above the Details text box. They will appear with the title and the format that have been assigned to them.

            ▪ Containment
This permits you to enter information that have been taken to mitigate the issue identified in this Complaint. Note that additional fields can be added in this object in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate and clicking on the + icon under the Action column.

            ▪ Documents
This permits you to attach up to 100 documents to the Complaint. To do so click on the + icon on the object and it will open the upload frames. You can search for Internal documents, if you subscribe to the Document Control module, by entering a word string in the Search box and clicking on the button on the right. Alternatively, you can narrow the listing by entering a word string in the Filter box below the Search box. Then select the displayed documents and move them over from the left to the right-hand box by clicking on the right facing arrow.
External documents can be browsed for by clicking on the Click to Upload button and selected in the External document section below.
            ▪ Keywords
This permits you to enter keywords or to reuse keywords that will help with the search of the Complaint using the Search feature on the Action Required page or the All Complaints page.
Click on + icon on the object header to add new keywords or to re-use those that are listed in Set-Up > Keywords.
            ▪ Documents
This permits you to attach up to 100 documents to the Complaint. To do so click on the + icon on the object and it will open the upload frames. You can search for Internal documents, if you subscribe to the Document Control module, by entering a word string in the Search box and clicking on the button on the right. Alternatively, you can narrow the listing by entering a word string in the Filter box below the Search box. Then select the displayed documents and move them over from the left to the right-hand box by clicking on the right facing arrow.
External documents can be browsed for by clicking on the Click to Upload button and selected in the External document section below.

            ▪ RMA
If the RMA object is activated on the New Complaints page you can record a RMA for the Complaint. You will need to select a number for the RMA from the RMA Number drop down list before entering any additional information by opening the Returned Parts, Replacement Parts and Repaired Parts sections. Additional information will be able to entered, including editing what has already been entered, during the Complaints workflow process on the Complaint Properties page.

            ▪ Payment
If the Payment object has been activated on the New Complaints page and you have identified that a payment must be made to the complainant at this stage, you can enter the relevant details of this payment on this object. If the Payment object is deactivated on the New Complaints page but is activated on the Complaint Properties page you can always enter the relevant details later at any time during the Complaint management process.

Click on the + icon on the Payment object and a set of boxes open up below. These are Reason, Method, Currency, Amount and Details. Select from the relevant drop-down lists of Reason, Method and Currency, enter the Amount and the Details. Note that if items are not listed on the relevant drop down lists you can always add them later and edit them in at any time during the Complaint workflow process. Further Payment information can be recorded after the Complaint has been recorded in the system.

            ▪ Non-Conformance (NC)
If the NC tab is activated on the New Complaints page you can record a Non-Conformance for the Complaint. Note that you can only create a single one on the New Complaints page but you will be able to add others, including editing the current one, during the Complaint workflow process on the Complaint Properties page.

Click on the NC tab, select from the Importance drop down list either Critical, Major, Minor or N/A. If you have created fields in addition to the Importance drop down list, then select or enter the details in the relevant boxes and then finally enter the details of the Non- Conformance in the Details text box. You can also click on the Copy Details button to copy the details recorded in the Details section into the Details section on the NC tab. You can also add up to 20 external documents.
If the Non-Conformance module is active on the account then a Record New NC button appears on the NC tab which when clicked opens the New NC page in a new browser tab and copies the key information about the Complaint over. Complete the recording of the NC in the NC module and click on Submit at the bottom of the page to record it. This closes the NC browser tab and records on the NC tab that the NC was recorded in the NC module.

Go to the Non-Conformance chapter for explanation on how recording a NC from the Complaints module in the NC module works.
            ▪ Root Cause
If the RC tab is activated on the New Complaints page you can record a Root Cause for the Complaint. Note that you can only create a single one on the New Complaints page but you will be able to add others, including editing the current one, at any time during the Complaint’s workflow process.
Click on the tab, select from any of the additional fields that have been created and then enter the details of the Root Cause in the Details text box. You can also add up to 20 external documents.
Further Root Causes can be added after the Complaint has been logged into the system. For more details on how this object works go to the CAPA chapter.

            ▪ Assign To
If the user logging the Complaint is a Complaint Admin or a Super Admin, then the Assign To object appears at the bottom of the New Complaints page. This object permits the automatic assignment of the logged Complaint to the selected user or group on the Assign To drop-down list.


There are the words in red at the top of the object “You have Dispatch rules. If you select options from the Status AND Assign To drop down lists then they will overrule your Dispatch rules”. This means that if you do not select the fields then the Complaint will follow the Dispatch rules of which there is always a default one which is that a Complaint upon being logged gets sent for Review by the Super Admins and Complaint Admins. So if an option is selected from the Status AND the Assign To drop down lists then the Complaint can by- pass the default Dispatch and be automatically assigned to a user or a group of users.
Additional Dispatch rules can be created in Set-Up > Dispatch whereby Complaints can be logged in the system and be automatically assigned to or sent for review by different users or groups of users based on specific rules.

Alternatively, the status of Rejected can be selected from the Status drop-down list which would seem a strange thing to select but this permits a record to be made in the system of the Complaint even though it is moved to the status of Rejected. Note that a reason for the rejection is required to be entered in the Comments box before it can be rejected.
If the user logging the Complaints is NOT a Complaint Admin or a Super Admin, then when they click on the Submit button at the bottom, the Complaint will follow the Dispatch rules of which by default there is always one which is that it will be sent in the status of Logged to all the Complaint Admins one of whom must assign it to a user or a group

            ▪ Submit Complaint
Once all the mandatory information has been selected or entered as well as any other relevant details of the Complaint, click on the Submit button located at the bottom of the page. This logs the Complaint into the system, assigns it a number based on the selected numbering rules and changes its status to either Logged, if the logging user is not a Complaint Admin or a Super Admin, or otherwise Assigned if the logging user is a Complaint Admin or a Super Admin and they have assigned the logged Complaint to a user, or group of users, listed in the Assign To drop-down list.


For the status of Logged, then ALL Complaint Admins will each receive a Logged Complaint email and a notification on their respective Dashboards under the Complaints tab. The Complaint is also listed on their Action Required pages as well as that of the user who
logged the Complaint if they are not a Complaint Admin. The Complaint must now be Assigned into the Complaint workflow process or Rejected, as the case may be, and this can only be done by one of the Complaint Admins who received the Logged Complaint notification.

For the status of Assigned, then the user or group of users selected in the Assign To drop- down list will receive an Assigned Complaint notification on the Complaints tab of their Dashboard, they will also receive an email and have the newly logged Complaint listed on their Action Required page.

        6.4 Complaints with multiple From and About details
Multiple From details and About details can be recorded on a Complaint. In fact a maximum of three (3) for each of the From and the About sections. This could be used when for example a consumer logged a complaint with a retailer about a can of Coke that they bought at the retailer. So the retailer records the complaint in isoTracker on behalf of the consumer with the retailer at the top and the consumer below. Or there could be two people with the same complaint so instead of recording a separate complaint for each, a single complaint is recorded with the two different complainants.
In order to record multiple From details, start by recording your first complainant by selecting their category from the From drop down list and then click on the box on the right to list the items in the selected database which can be narrowed down by entering a word string. You can also click on the hamburger button on the right which will open a tab displaying the letters of the alphabet which can be clicked on to narrow the displayed list of database items starting with that letter. Once an item is selected then it will be displayed below.. To record your second complainant repeat the same process as for the first complainant. Follow the same process for the third complainant if one needs to be recorded. Each complainant can be from a different category.

On the right of each complainant will be a Delete icon and an Edit icon. Click on the Delete icon to remove that complainant. Click on the Edit icon to open a separate tab and make changes to the listing directly in the database. Adding multiple About details works the same way.

The order of the multiple From and About details can be changed using drag and drop by the logged user before it is assigned and the Complaint Admins and Super Admins.

        6.5 Copy Prior Complaints
A Copy Prior Complaints button will appear at the top left of the New Complaints page after the first complaint has been recorded in the system. This feature permits certain key information of a prior Complaint to be copied over into the New Complaints page and reused. The information copied over is limited to the Number system, the From/About section and the Details section. Click on the Copy Prior Complaints button and a new browser tab opens listing all prior Complaints. View the Properties of a Complaint by clicking on the Properties icon on the Action column. Click on the OK icon to copy the key information from the selected prior Complaint into the New Complaints page. Note that other content such as in the Investigations, Non-Conformance, Root Cause, Payment, RMA, Correction, Corrective Action, etc. objects will NOT be copied over.

        6.6 Assigning a Complaint
A logged Complaint has to be assigned before any action can be taken on it. Only Super Admins or Complaint Admins can change the status of a Complaint from Logged to Assigned. Unless Dispatch rules have been created in Set-Up that automatically assigns a Complaint to a user or a group based on certain rules.

To assign a Logged Complaint, open the Complaint either by clicking on the Logged Complaint notification on the Dashboard or from the Action Required page click on the
Properties icon under the Action column of the Complaint with the status of Logged. Then scroll down to the Assign To object at the bottom of the Complaint’s properties.
Select Assigned from the Status drop down list and on the Assign To drop down list select the user or group who should be responsible for managing and resolving the Complaint. As a reminder, the Assign To drop down list can be modified to include standard users in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users, as well as the mandatory Complaint Admins.

When Assigned is selected from the Status drop down list the Choose Email link appears below it along with the email address of the complainant on the right or if there are multiple complainants then they will all be listed but any macros will only pull the details from the one at the top of the list. If there is no email address, then use this feature by typing in one or more email addresses. If there is an email address listed, then you can use that one, replace it with other email addresses or add email addresses to it. Click on the Choose Email link which opens a pop-up box on which are listed the Templates that have been created for this Status, then click on the Click Here to Edit link which opens the full template and on which you can add or edit the email addresses, edit the text, identify a CC email address and attach a document. Click on the Submit button and the modified email closes and is saved for this event only with the name of the email appearing in the place for the Choose Email link and will be sent when the Submit button at the bottom of the page is clicked.

Enter any relevant information in the Comment text box and click on the Submit button. The page refreshes and the status of the Complaint changes to Assigned. At this stage an Assigned Complaints notification appears on the Dashboard of the user or group of users who have been assigned to manage the Complaint. They also receive an Assigned Complaints email.

        6.7 Rejecting a Complaint
Complaint Admins can choose to reject a Complaint. The Complaint status is changed from
Logged to Rejected and the Complaint is removed from the Actions Required list.
To reject a Complaint, select Rejected from the Status drop down list, enter a comment in the Comment text box and click on Submit. You can also send an email to the complainant prior to clicking the Submit button by following the same process as when accepting a Complaint. Note that a comment is mandatory when rejecting a Complaint.

The status of the Complaint changes from Logged to Rejected and is removed from the
Actions Required page but remains on the All Complaints list.


To re-activate a rejected Complaint, go to the All Complaints page, click on the Properties icon of the relevant Complaint, on the Details object header next to the Assigned To title click on the words Click Here. A pop-up appears with the word Reassigned in the status drop down list, there is no other option, and the name of the logged user in the Assign To drop-down list. You can select a different user or group who should manage the Complaint, if needed you can enter text in the comment text box and then click on Submit. The Status of the Complaint changes from Rejected to Assigned, is added to the Action Required list of all Complaint Admins, plus that of the Assigned Users, an Assigned Complaint notification appears on the Complaints tab of the Dashboard of the users who have been assigned to manage the Complaint and an email is sent to them.
        6.8 Dispatch rules
If Dispatch rules have NOT been created in Set-Up > Dispatch then a Complaint will follow the following workflow after it has been logged:
            ▪ If logged by a Complaint Admin AND an Assigned User or Group has been selected in the Assign To object at the bottom of the New Complaints page then it will be sent in the status of Assigned to the selected Assigned User or Group as an Assigned Complaint on their Dashboard and by email
            ▪ If logged by a user who is NOT a Complaint Admin then the Complaint will be sent in the status of Logged to all the Complaint Admins, one of whom will be required to assign that Complaint to an Assigned User or Group. The same will apply when a Complaint is logged by a Complaint Admin and they DO NOT select and Assigned User or Group in the Assigned To object and instead simply click on the Submit button
If Dispatch rules have been created in Set-Up > Dispatch then a Complaint will follow those rules starting with the first rule at the top of the list in which it will check whether it complies with that rule and do one of two things as follows:

            ▪ If the Complaint complies with the Dispatch rule then it will perform the Action element of that rule and stop at that Dispatch rule
            ▪ If the Complaint DOES NOT comply with the Dispatch rule then it will move down to the next Dispatch rule immediately below where it will run the same test as for the previous rule in the list

The last Dispatch rule on the list is the default All Administrators rule which will be run only if none of the Dispatch rules above it have been complied with.

        6.9 Assigned Complaint
After a Complaint is assigned, the focus shifts to solving the Complaint. Depending on how a Complaint has been set-up in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects there will be a number of objects including new objects that appear when a Complaint is in the status of Assigned. These are as follows:

            ▪ Date and Number
This shows the Number of the Complaint and the Date of when the Complaint was received. In the History, click on the View link and see a pop-up listing the complete activity history of this Complaint with the most recent at the top, which can be printed.
            ▪ From and About
This will list whom the Complaint is From and what it is About. Up to three (3) can be listed on each.
            ▪ Complaint Details
In this section are listed the contents of the Complaint starting on the Object header which displays the following:

                • Assigned To: this will list the user or the group to whom the Complaint is assigned to
                • Status: the current status that the Complaint is in
                • Severity: the severity of the Complaint

Then in the main body of the Details section the following information will be displayed:
                • Tasks/Close: if you have created Tasks in Set-Up > Severity > Scale then the due date for the next one will be listed in red on the left and if there is a Close interval then its due date will be listed also in red at the right
                • Associated Complaints: Click on the link to open the list of Complaints that have been manually associated with the current one. Scroll through the Associated Complaints by clicking on the Numbers at the top left of the page. To view the entire list of associated complaints click on the Properties icon next to View Associated Complaints which opens a separate tab with the list. You can see the contents of each Associated Complaint by clicking on their Properties icon under the Action column.
If you want to add some Associated Complaints click on the + next to Add Associated Complaints to open a tab with all Complaints that have some similarity with the current Complaint. The similarities are Same From & About, Same From only, Same About only, Same Owner only (same person who logged the Complaint) and Same Type only (which is the selected option from the Type field). If there is content in those groupings then the + icon will turn the color maroon. Click on the maroon + icon to open the list of Complaints that have that similarity as the current one. To associate a Complaint then select the tick box on the Action column and then click on the Associate button at the top above the Action column.
                • Type: This is a field that cannot be moved from that position and is the umbrella definition of this Complaint.
                • Fields: These are the fields that have been created and populated and located above the Details box.
                • Details: These are the details of the Complaint.

            ▪ Containment
Click on + icon in the object header to add measures that have been taken to contain the issue raised by the Complaint. Click on the maroon View icon to open the Containment object and view its contents. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of already created Containment and on the Delete icon to delete them.

            ▪ Documents
Links up to 100 documents are listed here and they can be opened by clicking on any of the links. New documents can be added by clicking on + icon in the object header.

            ▪ Keywords
Click on + icon in the object header to add keywords. Click on the maroon View icon to open the Keywords object and view the already listed keywords. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of already created Keywords and on the Delete icon to delete them.
            ▪ Payment
Click on the maroon View icon to open the Payment object and view the already created Payment information. Click on the + icon to add Payment information. Note there can be multiple Payments. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of already created Payments and on the Delete icon to delete them.

            ▪ RMA
Click on the maroon View icon to open the RMA object and view the already created RMA. Click on + icon to add a RMA. Note there can be multiple RMAs. Click on the Edit icon to edit the details of already created RMAs and on the Delete icon to delete them.
            ▪ Notes
This object was present when the Status of the Complaint was Logged and you can place notes in this section about the Complaint by clicking on the + icon on the object header and entering the Note in the text box that appears. Then click on Submit. Click on the maroon View icon to view Notes already present. Notes act as reference to the person managing the Complaint and remain for the life of the Complaint unless deleted.

New Tasks can also be added to this Complaint in addition to the default Tasks that have been created in Set-Up > Severity > Scale and that are based on the Severity of the
Complaint. Click on the View icon on the Notes object header and then on the + icon next to
Add Task, then record the Task by selecting from the boxes that appear below:
    • Task: select the Task from the drop down list or create a new one by typing in the Task in the text box that appears at the top of the list and clicking on return
    • Required In: select the delay from Hour, Day, Week, Month and Year and then a number from the second drop down list. This interval is calculated from the date that the Complaint was logged in the system
    • Escalate To: if you want this Task to be escalated to another user when it is not completed in time then select a user from the drop down list. Note that the users on that drop down list are those listed on the right hand box in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users
Click on Submit to create the Task. Additional Tasks can be created but must all be before a mandatory Close date for a Complaint that will have been created on the Severity menu link in Set-Up > Severity > Scale.


            ▪ Emails
This object has three sections. Click on the maroon View icon to view the first section which is a listing of all the emails that have been sent to the complainant, or other people, and received from them. The information displayed will be the Date sent, the Event so whether it was sent from isoTracker or received in isoTracker, the Status as to whether it was from a template or was a custom email, the Subject of the email, the Content of the email, who the Sender was, who it was Sent To, who it was Copied to and what Document was attached to it. Note that when clicking on the Copy Details button in the Date Sent column the contents of the relevant email will be copied to the Details section in chronological order with the most recent at the top so that activities on this Complaint can be easily scrolled through. This section is updated as emails are sent.

Click on the + icon on the object header to open the following features:
                • Send Email: This feature permits the manual creation and sending of emails from isoTracker to the complainant. The same macros that are used in the Set-Up section for creating email templates can also be used here. The complainant’s email address can be edited, and added to, but not that of the sending user. The email can be copied to other email addresses with each address being separated by a comma. A document can also be attached. Once the Submit button is clicked at the bottom the sent email is then listed in chronological order on the email sent listing.
                • Select Template: This feature permits email templates that have been created in the Email feature of the Set-Up section to be selected and sent to the complainant outside their normal workflow status. The default listing is for the templates of All the statuses to be listed but these can be narrowed down by selecting a different option from the Status drop down list. Select a template by clicking on the relevant Click Here to Edit link under the Action column. Make any modifications to the template including sending a copy to other email addresses and attaching a document. Click on Submit to send it and it is then listed in chronological order on the email listing.
            ▪ Investigation
This object has two roles. It can be used to record the Details of the Investigation. It can also be used to send one or more Investigation requests to one or more users in the system with a request to reply by a specific date and time. In the event that the reply is not submitted by the required time then automatic reminders can be sent out at regular intervals for a period of up to 7 days as set in Admin > Investigation Reminders. In addition, the Investigation posts can be escalated to identified users in order to inform another party that the reply to the Investigation post has not been submitted in time. Finally the replies to Investigation posts can be copied over to the Investigation Details section, the Containment object or the Non- Conformance tab details. For more details on how this object works go to the Investigation chapter.
            ▪ Non-Conformance
On the New Complaint page and in the Logged status, information about a Non- Conformance can be entered in this tab. Once the complaint is assigned additional Non- Conformances can be entered. If the Non-Conformance module is activated then the words Record New NC appear on the Non-Conformance tab, which when clicked opens the New NC page of the Non-Conformance module in a new browser tab. The key information from the Complaint is copied over to the New NC page, enter any additional information, assign it to a user or group in the Assign to object, which you can do if you are an NC Admin as well, then click on the Submit button at the bottom. The Non-Conformance module closes and the NC is recorded on the Non-Conformance tab of the Complaint.

            ▪ Root Cause
On the New Complaint and in the Logged status, information about a Root Cause can be entered in this tab. Once the complaint is accepted additional Root Causes can be entered. Note that the Root Cause tab can only record the results of your Root Cause Analysis. For full Root Cause Analysis functionality go to the CAPA module.

            ▪ Correction
This tab can be used for recording the Action Required, the Action Taken and the Effectiveness of a Correction which DOES NOT have the urgency of a Corrective Action. More details on how this object works are provided in a separate Correction chapter.
            ▪ CAPA
This tab can be used for recording Corrective Actions and Preventive Actions in the CAPA module by clicking on the Record New CAPA button. This opens in a separate tab the New CAPA page in which is copied over key information from the Complaint such as From/About, Details, Non-Conformances and Root Causes. For more details on how this feature works go to the CAPA module.

            ▪ Final Review
At any time after a Complaint has been assigned it can be sent into Final Review or it can be Closed depending on what has been selected in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings. Final Review is a two-step closure process where the Complaint is sent for Final Review to a user listed in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users whose job is to review the Complaint and determine if it can be Closed or Rejecting the Final Review. If there are unfinished tasks, the Assigned User sending the Complaint into Final Review will be reminded of these with a pop-up listing if there are any Corrections and/or CAPAs that are still open. When closing the Complaint they will also be reminded of any unfinished tasks. If Final Review is deactivated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings then the Final Review object is replaced by a Close object and the closure of the Complaint follows a one- step process. Unfinished Tasks could include an open Correction or an open CAPA.
            ▪ Feedback
If this object has been activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Objects, then the Assigned User, Complaint Admins and Super Admins can provide any feedback during any Status of a Complaint until the Feedback email has been sent to the complainants. There are two options available in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings. These are, “Feedback Email sent after Complaint is in Final Review” and “Feedback Email sent after Complaint is Closed”. In either case the complainant will receive, either when the Complaint goes into Final Review or when it is Closed, an email notification soliciting them to provide feedback on the Complaint management process. They will be able to do this by clicking on a link in the email that opens the Complaint Properties page on which they will be able to view only the From/About and Details sections of the Complaint and then enter their feedback in the Feedback object. A complainant will be able to provide feedback no more than three (3) times and will receive a reminder email after they have recorded their feedback
        6.10 Action Required
As soon as a Complaint is logged in isoTracker, then it will be listed on the Action Required
page for the relevant users as follows:

            ▪ Log User: this is the user who logged the Complaint and is also listed as the Owner of the Complaint. The Complaint will stay listed from the moment that they have logged it until it is closed.
            ▪ Complaint Admins: all Complaint Admins, and Super Admins, will be able to access the Complaint and be able to manage it even though they may not be the Assigned User. The Complaint will stay listed from the moment that it has been logged until it is closed.
            ▪ Assigned Users: users listed on the Assigned Users menu link in Set-Up > Responsibility, who are NOT Complaint Admins, will only have the Complaint listed on their Action required page if the Complaint has been assigned to them and will stay listed until it is closed even if it is reassigned to another user.
            ▪ Other Users: users that are not in the previous categories will have the Complaint listed on their Action Required page from the moment they have a role in it. A role would be defined as receiving an Investigation notification. The same would happen when a user is assigned to perform the Final Review process. That Complaint will then stay listed on the Action Required page until it is closed.
A user who logs a Complaint will have it always listed on their My Complaints page. All Complaint Admins and Super Admins will have access to the All Complaints page on which is listed every Complaint in the system including those that are closed.
The Action Required page is the default opening page when the Complaints module is opened. It will also open by default to the Complaints listed on the All Open link at the top. Each of those links at the top of the Action Required page are followed by a number in brackets indicating how many Complaints are in that category. The default links are All Open and Unassigned and if Tasks are created in Set-Up or at a Complaint level these will be supplemented by Overdue, Due Today and Due Tomorrow. The All Complaints page also has a Closed link on the right of the links.

        6.11 Tasks
There are two (2) types of Tasks that are associated with a Severity and these are:
            ▪ Tasks: Multiple Tasks can be created in Set-Up > Severity > Scale for each active Severity and these are the default ones for every Complaint with that particular Severity. Additional Tasks can be created in the Notes object of each Complaint which will be only for that Complaint and will be in addition to the default Tasks already created in Set-Up.
            ▪ Close interval: A single Close interval can be creates in Set-Up > Severity > Scale menu link for each active Severity and this is the Close interval that will always be present on each Complaint with that particular Severity.


The default Tasks will automatically be assigned to a Complaint with that specific Severity and they will not be able to be deleted on that Complaint. Additional Tasks can be added on a custom basis to each Complaint in the Notes object by clicking on the + icon next to Add Task at the bottom.
Remember that any added Tasks on a Complaint must always be scheduled to go off before the Close interval.
All the Tasks are listed chronologically in the Notes object with the first one listed at the top and the last one at the bottom. The Close interval is always listed at the bottom and any added Tasks must be scheduled to be due before the Close interval task is due. As previously mentioned additional Tasks, but not the Close interval task, can be created at the Complaint level by using the Add Task feature in the Notes object.

The next scheduled Task is listed on the Notes object header and when that Task is overdue the Notes object header turns a light red color to indicated that the listed Task is overdue.
The next scheduled Task and the Close interval task are also listed in red at the top of the Details object and when either of them are not completed by the due date the relevant task will start flashing and the Details object header with turn a light red color.
Tasks such as sending an email to the complainant using an email template created and listed in Set-Up > Email > Complainant Notifications will automatically be shown as having been completed in the Notes object. The next open Task will then be listed at the top of the Details object and on the Notes object header.

While Tasks follow an order they are not sequential in the sense that a Task reminder will go off based on its due date irrespective of whether the previous task has been completed.
For Tasks that do not involve an email template or are to be performed outside of isoTracker, such as calling the complainant, their completion must be manually recorded. In order to manually record a Task as being completed open the Notes object by clicking on the maroon View icon, then on the relevant Task that has been completed click on the word Open under the Completed column and select a date and time of completion, upload a document if you need to in the Document column and then remember to click on the Submit icon under the Action column to have the Task be recorded as being completed.


When Tasks are created in Set-Up and/or in the Notes object of a Complaint then the Action Required page will in addition to the All Open and the Unassigned links, also have the additional following links at the top of the page:
            ▪ Overdue: followed by a number in brackets identifying the number of Complaints that have a Task that has exceeded its due date
            ▪ Due Today: followed by a number in brackets identifying the number of Complaints that have a Task that is due today.
            ▪ Due Tomorrow: followed by a number in brackets identifying the number of Complaints that have a Task that is due tomorrow
Click on the link to list the Complaints in the relevant categories. In each case the Tasks will include the normal Tasks as well as the Close interval tasks.

        6.12 Editing a Complaint
A Complaint can be edited by the Log User, Complaint Admins and Super Admins in its entirety after it has been Logged and before it has been Assigned. Once the Status has changed to Assigned then Complaint Admins, and Super Admins can edit all areas of a Complaint. The Assigned User, who is NOT a Complaint Admin, can add elements to a Complaint but cannot edit elements of the Complaint but they can edit what they added.
Assigned Users who are Complaint Admins have the same rights as other Complaint Admins. A Complaint cannot be edited once it has been sent into Final Review and, of course, once Closed. After the Complaint has been Assigned the following items can be edited by clicking on the relevant Edit icon:
            ▪ Number: Click on the Edit icon on the right of the title to change the Complaint’s number to that of another numbering system and then on the Save icon above to
confirm the changes. Note that if there is only one active numbering system then the Edit icon will not be displayed. This can only be done by Complaint Admins and the Super Admins.
            ▪ Date: Click on the Edit icon on the right of the title to change the date of the Complaint to any other date (future or past) and then click on the Save icon above to confirm the changes. This can only be done by Complaint Admins and the Super Admins.
            ▪ From: Click on the Edit icon on the right of the From title and then follow the same process as when the Complaint was originally logged to select another complainant. Click on Submit to confirm the changes. If there are multiple listings in the From section then these can be deleted by clicking on the relevant Delete icon. Also the order of the listings can be changed by using drag and drop. This can only be done by Complaint Admins and the Super Admins.
            ▪ About: Click on the Edit icon on the right of the About title and then follow the same process as when the Complaint was originally logged to select another Complaint subject. Click on Submit to confirm the changes. If there are multiple listings in the About section then these can be deleted by clicking on the relevant Delete icon. Also the order of the listings can be changed by using drag and drop. This can only be done by Complaint Admins and the Super Admins.
            ▪ Details: The Details section can be edited by Complaint Admins and Super Admins. Otherwise, the Assigned User who is not a Complaint Admin can only add to the information that has been already entered and edit and delete information that they have entered. Assigned Users who are Complaint Admins have the same rights as other Complaint Admins. To edit the Details, click on the Edit icon on the left of any entries, make your changes in the text editor and then click on Submit. The name of the user and the date of these modifications will precede the edited text. The other fields can be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the object header title which opens all the fields below, select or enter other information in the relevant fields and then click on the Submit button below them.

To add to the Details section of the Complaint, click on the + icon at the bottom left of Details box and a new text box opens below in which additional information about the Complaint can be entered. Click on the Submit button and the addition to the Details is displayed above the previous Details but preceded, in green, by the name of the user and the date and time that these additions were submitted by.
            ▪ Containment: This section can be edited by the, Complaint Admins and the Super Admins. Otherwise, the Assigned User who is not a Complaint Admin can only add to the information that has been already entered. They can also edit and delete information that they have added. To edit this section, click on the Edit icon on the left of an entry, make your changes in the text editor and then click on Submit. The name of the user and the date of these modifications will precede the edited text.

To add to this section, click on the + icon on the object header which opens the add box, enter the additional information in the text box and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details but preceded, in green, with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted by.
            ▪ Documents: Documents previously added to this Complaint can be removed. To do this open the object by clicking on the + icon on the object header. If there are Internal documents already selected these can be removed by moving the relevant documents from the right hand box to the left hand box using the left facing arrow above. External documents can be removed by clicking on of the X on the right of the document and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up.

Internal documents can be added, if you subscribe to the Document Control module, by entering a word string in the Search box or in the Filter box which narrows the listed documents listed below. Then select the displayed documents and move them over from the left to the right-hand box by clicking on the right facing arrow above. External documents can be browsed for and selected in the External document section below. Up to 100 internal and external documents can be attached to a Complaint
            ▪ Payment: Information previously entered in the Payment object can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the left of the relevant entry and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the relevant Edit icon, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. This can only be done by Complaint Admins and Super Admins. Information can be added by the Assigned User, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins.
To add to this section, click on the + icon on the object header which opens the add box, enter the additional information in the drop down lists and text boxes and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted.
            ▪ Non-Conformance: Information previously entered in the Non-Conformance tab can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the right of the relevant Non-Conformance number and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant Non-Conformance number, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. Note that a Prior NC that has been copied over cannot be edited but it can be removed. The edit function can only be done by Complaint Admins and Super Admins.
To add another Non-Conformance, open the tab and then click on the Add Non- Conformance button which opens the add box below the already recorded Non- Conformance, enter the additional information in the text box and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted.
Information can be added by the Assigned Users, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins.


            ▪ Root Cause: Information previously entered in the Root Cause tab can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the right of the relevant Root Cause number and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant Root Cause entry, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. This can only be done by Complaint Admins and Super Admins.

To add to this section, open the tab and then click on the Add Root Cause button which opens the add box below the already recorded Root Cause, enter the additional information in the text box and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed below the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted. Information can be added by the Assigned User, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins.


            ▪ Correction: Information previously entered in the Correction tab can be deleted by clicking on the Delete icon on the right of the relevant Correction number and then on OK in the secondary confirmation pop-up. This previously entered information can also be edited by clicking on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant Correction number, making the changes in the Edit boxes and then clicking on the Submit button. The edit function can only be done by Complaint Admins and Super Admins.

To add another Correction, open the tab and then click on the Add Correction button which opens the add box below the already recorded Correction, enter the additional
information in the text box and then click on the Submit button. The added information will be displayed above the initial details with the name of the user and the date and time that the new information was submitted. Information can be added by the Assigned Users, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins.
            ▪ CAPA: If the Complaint is already associated with a CAPA, the CAPA summary details will be listed when the tab is opened. A CAPA already recorded from this Complaint can be removed by clicking on the Delete icon on the Action column of the listed CAPA. This will remove the link from this Complaint to the CAPA but will not delete the CAPA from the CAPA module. To view the details of the previously recorded CAPA click on the Properties icon in the Action column of the listed CAPA in the CAPA tab and the CAPA will open in a new browser tab. The edit function can only be done by Complaint Admins and Super Admins.

To add another CAPA, click on the Record New CAPA button on the CAPA tab, which opens the New CAPA page in a new browser tab. The main details from the Complaint will be copied over to the New CAPA page and these will be From to Parties and About to About, the Details to the Description and any recorded Non-Conformances and/or Root Causes. Add additional information in the CAPA and remember to click on Submit to record the CAPA which closes the CAPA module tab and lists the CAPA in the CAPA tab of the Complaint. Information can be added by the Assigned Users, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins.

        6.13 Web Form logged Complaint
A Complaint that is logged using the Web Form may not have all the mandatory fields either completed or present once recorded. As the Complaint goes into the status of Logged when recorded on the Web Form it then needs to be assigned to an Assigned User or an Assigned Group. In order to assign it the system requires that all the mandatory fields are populated and this can be done by using the Edit function in the From/About sections as well as any mandatory fields in the Details section to have those areas populated.

A Complaint logged from a Web Form has its own unique numbering system being WEB-YY- NNNN where YY are the last 2 digits of the current year and NNNN being the number of that Complaint originating from a Web Form which starts at 0001 and increments with each Web Form Complaint before being reset to 0001 at the beginning of the next calendar year.
A Complaint recorded from a Web Form is NOT subject to any Dispatch rules other the default All Administrators rule which means that when logged it is immediately notified to All Complaints Admins one of which must assign to an Assigned User or and Assigned Group. It then follows the same workflow processes of other Complaints.

        6.14 Reassigning a Complaint
A Complaint can be reassigned from one Assigned User to another Assigned User or Assigned Group by the current Assigned User, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins. The new Assigned User will receive a Reassigned Complaints notification on their Dashboard as well as an email. Any active conversations taking place in the Investigation object will continue between the original send and receive users irrespective of any changes in the Assigned User(s).

To reassign a Complaint, click on the Edit icon on the right of the name of the Assigned To person on the Details object header. A pop-up appears with the word Reassigned selected in the Status drop-down list, there is no other option, and the name of the logged user in the Administrator drop-down list. Select a different user or group from the Administrator drop- down list, enter text in the comment text box if required and then click on Submit. The users to whom the Complaint has been reassigned to, receive an email, a Reassigned Complaints
notification on the Complaints tab of their Dashboard and the reassigned Complaint will be listed on their Action Required page, if it is not already listed. If there was content entered in the Comment box when reassigning the Complaint then the call out on the right of the Assigned To information will be flashing red. When the call out is clicked and read the call out will turn pink and stop flashing. This is only for the Assigned User with other users just having the call out in pink and not flashing.

As a reminder, the list of Users who can have Complaints assigned to them are the Complaint Admins plus any users added to the list in Set-Up > Responsibility > Assigned Users and groups created below the user section.

        6.15 Using the Search feature
The content of listed Complaints of the logged in user can be searched by clicking on the Search icon at the top of the page. The search can be in ALL Complaints (default), Open Complaints or Closed Complaints and using multiple search terms each separated by a semi colon.

The search results are displayed with a list of Complaints containing the search term with the listing at the top having the most instances of that search term. The next Complaint down on the search result list will have fewer instances of that search term than the one above it and so on. If there are multiple search terms then each will have a separate listing.
Click on the Properties icon of a listed Complaint in the search results list to open it.

        6.16 Investigating a Complaint
After a Complaint is accepted, the focus shifts to solving the Complaint and the process of investigation begins. For a description of how it works go to the Investigations chapter.

        6.17 Non-Conformance (NC)
This tab is used to record new Non-Conformances or to reuse previously recorded Non- Conformances. For an explanation of how it works go to the Non-Conformance section in Logging a Complaint.

        6.18 Root Cause
This tab is used to record new Root Causes for the relevant Complaint. For a description of how it works go to the Root Cause section in Logging a Complaint.

        6.19 Recording a CAPA
For a description of how to record a Corrective Action and/or a Preventive Action for a Complaint go to the CAPA Module.

        6.20 Feedback
Information can be entered at different times by Internal Users and the Complainants in the
Feedback object. Each of the types of user rights are described as follows:

            ▪ Internal Users:
If the Feedback object is listed as being Active on the Objects menu link in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate, then at any time from the moment a Complaint has been Assigned until it is either in Final Review or Closed, the Assigned Users, Complaint Admins and Super Admins can enter a feedback comment in the Feedback object. This is done by clicking on the + icon on the object header selecting from the Feedback drop down list, entering information in the Comments text box, if relevant attaching a document and then clicking on the Submit button. A multiple number of feedbacks can be provided by Internal
Users from the moment a Complaint is Assigned until it is either in Final Review or Closed and they will list in chronological order with the newest one at the top. Internal Users are not able to submit feedback after the Complaint has been Closed.
            ▪ Complainant:
If in Set-Up > Object Activate/ Deactivate > Settings the option of “Feedback Email sent after Complaint is in Final Review” is selected then complainants can submit feedback in the Feedback object only once a Complaint is in Final Review by clicking on the link in the Feedback Request email that they have received. If on the other hand “Feedback Email sent after Complaint is Closed” is selected then the complainants can submit feedback when the Complaint is Closed. When the link in the email is clicked on, the Properties page will open and display the From/About, Details, Containment and Feedback objects of the Complaint only. They will not have access to any other Complaint in the system or any other objects of the open Complaint. Feedback about this Complaint can be provided by clicking on the + icon on the Feedback object header then selecting from the Feedback drop down list, entering information in the Comments text box, if relevant attaching a document and then clicking on the Submit button. Once the Submit button has been clicked, the Complainant will be sent the Feedback Received email acknowledging their feedback and informing them that they can submit up to two (2) further feedback comments. The same process can be repeated until the Complainant has submitted a maximum of three (3) feedback comments after which time the + icon will be deactivated.

The Feedback Request and Feedback Received emails are pre-created and are listed in Set-Up > Email > Complainant Notifications. They can be edited by clicking on the Edit icon but it is important to note that they are only effective as long as the {Feedback Properties Link} macro is displayed on the email.

        6.21 Two-Step closing of the Complaint
The default setting is for a Complaint to be closed using a two-step process with the first step being a Final Review and the last step being the Close. In Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings with “Activate Final Review before closing” selected, the Complaint closure process will follow that two-step process. Go to the next paragraph for a one-step closure process.

So a complete review, the Final Review, of a Complaint can be performed at any time once the Complaint has been Assigned but most probably after an Investigation, recording one or more Non-Conformances and/or Root Causes, resolving the issue through a Correction or, if more urgent, recording a CAPA. From the status of Final Review a Complaint can be reviewed and then Closed or sent back to the prior stage for further study or action. The Final Review process can be carried out by the Super Admins, Complaint Admins and any user who has been identified on the right hand box in Set-Up > Responsibility > Final Review Users. Also, a Complaint can be sent to Final Review by the Assigned Users, all Complaint Admins and Super Admins.

To send a Complaint to Final Review, click on the + icon on the Final Review object header. Then assign the Final Review process to a staff member by selecting them from the Send To drop down list, if you want to inform the complainants select an email to send to them by clicking on the Choose Email link, enter the Final Comment in the relevant text box, attach up to 20 documents if you need to and click the Submit button.

The status of the Complaint changes to Final Review. The staff member assigned to perform the final review process will have a Final Review notification on the Complaints tab of their Dashboard and on the Final Review object header when they open the Properties page.
They will also receive an email.
Note that, if there are Corrections, CAPAs or Risks recorded from this Complaint that have not been closed then a warning pop-up will appear at the time the Final Review object is opened. Click OK if you want to progress to the Final Review process or Cancel if you want to close the relevant Corrections, CAPAs and/or Risks.
    • Closing the Complaint
Select Closed from the Status drop down list, send an email if you wish to the complainants, you may enter a comment, attach up to 20 documents and click on the Submit button. The Status of the Complaint changes to Closed and the Complaint is removed from all relevant users’ Action Required page. If there are still Corrections, CAPAs and/or Risks recorded from this Complaint that have not been closed, then a warning pop-up will appear at the time that Closed is selected from the Status drop down list. Click OK if you want to progress to the Closed process or Cancel if you want to reject the Closed process and have any or all outstanding matters dealt with.

The user who originally logged the Complaint will receive a Closed Complaint notification. A Closed Complaint can be re-activated and changed to the status of Assigned by Super Admins and Complaint Admins from the All Complaints page.

    • Rejected Final Review
Select Rejected Final Review if you do not think that the Complaint is ready to be closed, enter a Rejected Comment and click on the Submit button. The Status of the Complaint changes to Rejected Final Review and a notification of Rejected Final Review is sent to the Assigned Users who sent the Complaint to Final Review in the first place. The notification appears on the Complaints tab of their Dashboard as well as on the Final Review object header which will have turned the color red.

From the Rejected Final Review status, a Complaint can again be sent to Final Review or alternatively it can have more information recorded on it including other Investigation notifications.
The Status of the Complaint will change to that of the next event and then increment from there on. For example, if the next event after a Rejected Final Review is an Investigation notification then the Status will change to Investigation and it can only progress to CAPA and Final Review but it cannot go back to Assigned or Reject Final Review.
    • Different Assigned and Final Review users
With the two-step closure process activated in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings, there is also the ability to ensure that an Assigned User is not able to close their own Complaints. To do that activate “Make Final Review user and Assigned user be different”. This will mean that if a user is on both the right-hand boxes in Assigned Users and the Final Review Users menu links in Set-Up > Responsibility then when they are the Assigned User of a Complaint and they want to send it for Final Review that they will NOT be able to send it to themselves and as a consequence they will not be listed on the Send To drop down list.

        6.22 One-Step closing of the Complaint
If in Set-Up > Object Activate/Deactivate > Settings, the feature “Activate Final Review before closing” is deselected then the Complaint closure process will follow a one-step process. This means that instead of having a Final Review object at the bottom there will be a Close object and a Complaint can be closed in one-step.
This is done by opening the Close object, and clicking on the Submit button. You can also send an email to the complainants, if templates have been created on the Complaints Notifications menu link in Set-Up > Emails, and enter a comment in the Comments box.

        6.23 Reactivating a Closed Complaint
A Complaint that has been closed is listed in the All Complaints page from where it can be reactivated at any time by all Complaints Admins and Super Admins.
To re-activate a closed Complaint, go to the All Complaints page, click on the Properties icon of the relevant Complaint, then on the Details object header next to the Assigned To title
click on the word Click Here. In the pop-up Reactivated appears in the Status drop down list, there is no other option, and the logged user in the Administrator drop-down list. Select a different Assigned User, if required, optionally enter text in the comment text box, and then click on Submit. You can also reactivate a closed Complaint by clicking on the Reactivate icon on the Action column.

The Complaint is now reactivated and can go through the normal workflow steps as it did during any prior life. The old information is still listed and any new information can be added to previously entered and saved information.
    7. Investigation
Investigation is not a separate module but rather an object, or feature, that is available on all modules except for the Document Control module. From the Investigation object, Investigation Details can be recorded and Investigation Notifications can be sent to one or more users in parallel or separately.
When the word Event appears in this chapter it means any of the modules that you are using that have the Investigation features.

        7.1 Investigation Details
To record the details of an investigation click on the + icon on the Investigation object and then on the + icon next to Add Investigation Details. Enter your text, attach documents if you wish to and click on Submit. Additional Details can be added by clicking on the + icon next to Add Investigation Details which is below the recorded details. The details are listed in chronological order with the most recent at the top. Additional Details can also be copied over from a reply to an Investigation Notification by clicking on the Copy to Investigation button in the reply.


        7.2 Investigation Notifications
An Investigation Notification is used to create one or more discussions among invited users by assigning time bound tasks and by inviting other users into the discussion after the time bound task has been issued. In addition, automatic reminders are sent out when the relevant task has not been responded to in time. The task can also be escalated to other users.
            ▪ Send an Investigation Notification
To send an Event for Investigation click on the + icon on the Investigation object and then on the + icon next to Send for Investigation Notification. The details of the Investigation notification now need to be formalized as follows:
                • Send To: Select the users to whom the Investigation Notification should be sent to. Narrow down the list of users by entering a word string in the Filter box. Then click on the relevant users and move them over to the box on the right using the right facing arrow.
                • Reply Required: This is the deadline by which you want your notification to be replied to. Click on the Calendar icon, select a day by clicking on a date on the calendar pop- up, then use the Clock icon to select the time. The date and time for the reply is entered on the Reply Required box. If the Investigation Notification has not been replied to by the Reply Required date, the replying user who missed the deadline will be sent a Late Reply notification as a reminder.
                • Reminder: This defaults to Yes which will send multiple Late Reply notifications based on the settings in Admin > Investigation Reminders with each notification being sent at the selected interval and for the identified duration unless the Investigation Notification has been replied to. The option of No can be selected from the Reminder drop down list which will not send any reminder other than the first reminder sent at the due date.
                • Attach Documents: You can attach up to ten (10) external documents to this Investigation Notification.
                • Choose Email: Click on the Choose Email link which opens a pop-up box on which are listed the Templates that have been created in Set-Up > Emails for the relevant module’s Status which in this case is Investigation. Click on the Click Here to Edit link which opens the full template and on which you can edit the send to email addresses as well as the text, identify a CC email address and attach a document. Click on the Submit button and the modified email closes and is saved for this event only with the name of the email appearing in the place for the Choose Email link.
                • Action Required: Enter the details of what you want the recipient of this notification to do. This is a mandatory field
                • Escalation Notification: Click on the + icon next to the words Escalate this Investigation Request and the Escalation boxes open below. Select the User(s) from
the Send To section to whom the Investigation should be escalated to and enter the Details. An Escalation notification will go off to the assigned user(s) only as soon as the Reply Required date has been exceeded without a reply.
Click Submit to send the Investigation notification.

The notification, Investigation Notifications, will appear under the relevant Events Tab on the Dashboard of the users selected to receive the Investigation notification. The Investigation object header on the Properties page of the receiving user will turn the color red and will also have the words Investigation Notifications listed on it. Once this notification is replied to by the receiving user then the object header will revert to the color Grey and the words Investigation Notifications will disappear.

            ▪ To view an Investigation Notification
For the receiving user to view an Investigation post click on the Investigation Notifications listing under the relevant Events tab of their Dashboard. The Investigation Notification can also be viewed by clicking on the link in the notifying email and logging into to the receiving user’s isoTracker account. In both cases the Properties page opens at the location of the Investigation Notification. The notification can also be accessed from the Actions Required page. Click on the Properties icon under the Action column and then scroll down to the Investigation object on which the View icon will have turned to maroon, the object header will be the color Red and display the words Investigation Notifications. Click on the View icon to open the object and the Investigation notification will appear as a blog along with any other Investigation notifications relating to this Event. There will be a Submit Reply button above the relevant Investigation notification which must be clicked in order to reply to that notification.

            ▪ Sending additional Investigation Notifications
Additional Investigation notifications can be sent by clicking on the + icon on the Investigation object and then on the + icon on the left of Send an Investigation Notification. There is no limitation to the number of notifications that can be sent. Repeat the same process as with prior Investigation notifications and then click the Submit button. The details of the new posts get added to the relevant listings in chronological order with the most recent at the top. Note that each stream of notifications will have a two (2) digit number in red on the left of the sending user’s name or replying user’s name so each stream can be differentiated from other streams. However they will all be listed chronologically with the most recent at the top and all streams mixed.
            ▪ Sending a Follow-Up to an Investigation Notification
A follow-up to an Investigation Notification can be sent by the sending user to the same users, or to different users, by clicking on the + icon on the right of the Sent date. On the boxes that open above the original receive user(s) will be listed on the Send To right hand box. You may send the Follow-Up message to the same users and/or other users by making sure that the relevant users are displayed in the right-hand box. Enter the message in the Follow-Up message box and then click the Submit button.

The details of the Follow-Up Message are added to the Investigation listing in chronological order with the most recent at the top. The receiving users will have an Investigation Follow- Up Message notification on their Dashboard and will also receive an email. An Investigation Follow-Up Message can be replied to by the receiving user(s) by clicking on the + icon on the right of the Follow-Up Sent date but this is not required as there is no mandatory Reply Required Date.

            ▪ Replying to an Investigation Notification
A user selected to receive an Investigation Notification can access and reply to the Notification by clicking on the relevant Investigation Notification link on their Dashboard. This opens the properties page with the same notification on the Investigation object, click on the View icon and the Investigation posts are listed in chronological order below with the most recent at the top. To reply to the notification, click the Submit Reply button, enter the reply, if
you want you can specify a Completion Date of the task and attach documents to the reply, and then click on Submit.
The Notification reply details are displayed chronologically in a different shade to differentiate it from the Investigation Notification post. The notification, Investigation Replies, will appear on the Dashboard of the user being replied to. The Investigation object header will turn the color red for the user being replied to and the words Investigation Replies will also appear on it. This is to show that the logged in user has a task to perform. An email is also sent to them.

The user being replied to can also copy the details of the reply by clicking on any of the three buttons that appear on the left of the date that the reply was sent. These buttons are:
    • Copy to Investigation: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Investigation Details text box at the top of the Investigation object.
    • Copy to NC: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Details section of a new NC in the Non-Conformance tab on which other fields will have to be selected before the Submit button is clicked to record the NC. Note that this feature is not available when the Non-Conformance module is activated on your account.
    • Copy to Containment: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Containment Details text box at the top of the Containment object.
            ▪ Late Reply Notifications
If the reply to an Investigation Notification is not received by the Reply Required date, then a reminder notification is sent out to the person who is late with their reply. The notification is listed on their Summary page and on their Investigation object header as Investigation Late Replies. Each reminder notification is also sent by email.

The Investigation Late Replies post will be listed chronologically with the most recent at the top. If on the Reminder drop down list the default of Yes was maintained when the notification was originally sent then the user who is late in replying to the notification with receive further Late Reply notifications based on the settings in Admin > Investigation Reminders.

            ▪ Sending a Reply to a Follow-Up Message
The receiving users of a Follow-Up message can reply to it by clicking on the + icon on the right of the Follow-Up Sent date. On the boxes that open above the original Follow-up message, enter the reply in the Follow-Up Reply text editor, attach any documents and then click the Submit button.

The details of the Follow-Up Reply message are added to the Investigation listing in chronological order with the most recent at the top. The receiving users will have an Investigation Follow-Up Reply message notification on their Dashboard and will also receive an email. An Investigation Follow-Up Reply message cannot be replied to.

The user being replied to can also copy the details of the follow-up reply by clicking on any of the three buttons that appear on the left of the date that the reply was sent. These buttons are:
                • Copy to Investigation: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Investigation Details text box at the top of the Investigation object.
                • Copy to NC: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Details section of a new NC in the Non-Conformance tab on which other fields will have to be selected before the Submit button is clicked to record the NC. Note that this feature is not available when the Non-Conformance module is activated on your account.
                • Copy to Containment: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Containment Details text box at the top of the Containment object.

            ▪ Escalation notifications
To have an Investigation Notification be automatically escalated to one or more other users when the Reply Required date of an Investigation Notification has been missed, click on the + icon next to Escalate this Investigation Request at the bottom while an Investigation
notification is being created, select the user or users who are to receive the Escalation notification and then enter the details of the escalation. Click on Submit to send both the Investigation notification and its Escalation. Note that an Escalation notification can also be sent to oneself as a reminder.

If the user does not reply to the Investigation notification by the Reply Required date, then the Escalation notification will automatically go off to the selected users. It will appear in chronological order above its associated Investigation notification with a Submit Reply button above it. An Escalation of an Investigation notification is listed on the relevant Events tab of the Dashboard of the receiving user. The Investigation object header will turn red for the receiving user to show that they have a task to perform.

A reply to an Escalation notification is submitted by clicking on the Submit Reply button and the reply is listed above the original Escalation post. The user receiving the reply will have an Escalation Replies notification on the relevant Events tab of their Dashboard as well as on the Investigation object header. The notifications disappear after the Dasboard link is clicked through or the object with the notification is opened.

            ▪ Sending a Follow-Up to an Investigation Required Reply notification
After an Investigation Notification has been replied to, the replying user can send a follow-up to that reply. This is done by clicking on the + icon on the left of the Reply Sent date. On the boxes that open above the original reply enter the follow-up message in the Required Reply Follow-Up message box and then click the Submit button.
The details of the Required Reply Follow-Up Message are added to the Investigation listing in chronological order with the most recent at the top. The receiving users will have an Investigation Required Reply Follow-Up Message notification on their Dashboard and will also receive an email. An Investigation Required Reply Follow-Up Message cannot be Rejected or Accepted by the receiving user.

The user being replied to can also copy the details of the required reply follow-up by clicking on any of the three buttons that appear on the left of the date that the reply was sent. These buttons are:
                • Copy to Investigation: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Investigation Details text box at the top of the Investigation object.
                • Copy to NC: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Details section of a new NC in the Non-Conformance tab on which other fields will have to be selected before the Submit button is clicked to record the NC. Note that this feature is not available when the Non-Conformance module is activated on your account.
                • Copy to Containment: When clicked the details of the reply will be copied over to the Containment Details text box at the top of the Containment object.


            ▪ Accepting or Rejecting Investigation Replies
The Assigned User who issued the Investigation has the option to accept or reject the reply to the Investigation notification which is known as an Investigation replies. Accepting it means that the discussion is closed while Rejecting it means that you need more information and will keep it open.
To review the reply to the Investigation, click through on the Investigation Replies link under the relevant Events tab on the Dashboard or click on the Properties icon under the Action column of the relevant Event on the Action Required page. Note that the Investigation object header will have turned the color red and will have the words Investigation Replies listed on it. With the properties page open, scroll down to the Investigation object, open it and see the Investigation Notifications and their replies.
Click on the Accept/Reject button and then to Accept an Investigation reply select Accepted from the Action drop down list and click on the Submit button. A notification is sent to the user who replied to it as Investigation Replies Accepted on their Dashboard.
To Reject an Investigation reply, select Rejected from the Action drop down list then enter the Action Required, a Reply Due Date and click on Submit. This sends an Investigation Replies Rejected notification to the user who replied to the Investigation and their Investigation object header will turn the color red until they submit their reply. It is effectively a re-issue of the Investigation Notification which has to be replied to but with a new Reply Required Date. An Investigation Rejected Late Replies notification will be sent out if the rejected Investigation has not been replied to by the new Reply Required Date. If the original Investigation notification had an Escalation activated on it, then an Escalation notification will also be sent out to the same users on the Reply Due Date. But this only happens if the relaunched notifications, as a result of the rejection of the previous reply, is not replied to by the new Reply Due Date.

Finally, the Investigation Rejected Late Replies notifications will be sent as per the settings in Admin > Investigation Reminders unless No was selected on the Reminder drop down list for the original Investigation notification.
            ▪ Editing an Investigation Notification and its Escalation Notification
An Investigation Notification and its Escalation Notification, if created, can be edited by the Send User at any time prior to its Reply Required date, while the Reply to an Investigation Notification can be edited by the Reply User at any time prior to it being Accepted or Rejected. To edit click on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant post, make the changes and click on the Submit button.

            ▪ Editing the Reply to an Investigation Notification and its Escalation Notification The Reply to an Investigation Notification can be edited by the Reply User at any time prior to it being Accepted or Rejected. To edit click on the Edit icon on the right of the relevant reply post, make the changes and then click on the Submit button. The Reply to an Escalation Notification cannot be edited.

            ▪ Editing a Follow-Up Message
The editing rules for the three (3) types of Follow-Up messages are as follows:
                • Follow-Up Message: This is sent out as a follow-up to an Investigation notification and can be edited at any time prior to it being replied to or of the Event being closed.
                • Follow-Up Reply Message: This is the reply to the Follow-Up Message and can be edited at any time prior to the Event being closed.
                • Required Reply Follow-Up Message: This is the follow-up to the reply to an Investigation notification and can be edited at any time prior to the Event being closed
            ▪ Deleting Investigation Notifications, Escalations and Replies
All notifications, escalations and replies can be deleted only by the Super Admins by clicking on the Delete icon on the right side of each post. There will be a secondary confirmation required before the relevant post can be complete deleted.
    8. Corrections
Correction is not a separate module but rather a tab on all modules except for the Document Control module. As it is present in all modules it is managed in the Admin section at Admin > NC, RC & Correction Fields. But just to complicate things a bit, if the Non-Conformance module is active on the account then this section is titled RC & Correction Fields. Also, if the CAPA module is active on the account then this section is titled NC & Correction Fields.
When both the Non-Conformance and CAPA modules are active on the account then it is titled simply Correction Fields.


        8.1 Settings
In Admin > NC, RC & Correction Fields the name of the Correction tab can be changed here as well as the sections on that tab can be changed.
To change the name, click on the pen icon on the left of the word, make your changes in the box that opens and then click on the Save icon.

There are three (3) default sections being Action Required, Action Taken and Effectiveness. They each have the following default fields:
            ▪ Action Required: Target Date and Responsibility. These fields can be edited, delete, added to and made mandatory.
            ▪ Action Taken: Completion Date and Completed By. These fields can be edited, delete, added to and made mandatory.
            ▪ Effectiveness: Completion Date and Completed By. These fields can be edited, delete, added to and made mandatory.
The default sections can be deactivated by clicking on the word Active under the Status column which changes to Inactive. They can also be edited by the clicking on the Edit icon under the Action column. The order of the sections can be changed using drag and drop.

        8.2 Recording a Correction
When the word Event appears in this chapter it means any of the modules that you are using that have the Correction features.

To record a new Correction, click on the Correction tab, which opens the following features:
            ▪ Action Required: This tab by default will be open and can be used to record the action that is required to perform this Correction as well as setting a Target Date for its completion and the Responsibility for that completion. In addition, fields that have been created in the Admin section can be selected or completed. Up to 20 external documents can be attached as well. Click on the Submit button to record the Action Required and a unique number is then assigned to this Correction.
            ▪ Action Taken: This tab which is opened by clicking on the + icon on the right of the tab is used to record the specific action that was taken in the performance of the Correction such as the Completion Date, who it was Completed By and the details of the Action Taken. In addition, up to 20 external documents can be attached. Click on Submit to record the Action Taken.
            ▪ Effectiveness: This feature which is also opened by clicking on the + icon on the right of the tab is used to record the effectiveness of the Correction Taken such as the Completion Date, who it was Completed By and the details of the Effectiveness. In fact, strictly speaking, it should be recorded at a later time that the Action Taken details.
You can attach up to 20 external documents as well. Click on Submit to record the Effectiveness of the Action Taken.
            ▪ NC/RC: By clicking on the Choose Non-Conformances link and/or the Choose Root Causes link, at the bottom of the Correction tab, a single Non-Conformance Record and/or a single Root Cause can be selected from those created in the relevant Event and attached to this Correction.

Click on Submit below each of the tabs to record them in the system. Do NOT complete all the features at the same time but rather start with the Action Required, click on the relevant Submit button and then move on to the next one afterwards.


Additional Corrections can be recorded by clicking on the Add another Correction button located above the most recent Correction.

Below the Effectiveness feature is a large red button with the words Click to Close in it. Click on this button when the Correction measures have been completed to record that the matter has been closed. The button will immediately change color to green and have the words Click to Open displayed in. The action of closing the Correction will also be recorded at the bottom of the Effectiveness feature with the name of the user performing the closure and the date & time of the action. When the Click to Open button is displayed, the Correction cannot be added to or edited. In order to add to the Correction or edit it click on the Click to Open button and have it change to Click to Close and then make the wanted changes or additions.
The action of clicking on the Click to Close button makes a record that the Correction is Closed. If it has not been closed when attempting to close the Event, then a reminder pop-up box will appear informing that the Correction needs to be optionally closed before the Event is finally closed. On that pop-up you will be able to click OK to ignore the message and close the Event or click on Cancel to go back and close the Correction before then closing the relevant Event.

    9. Dashboard
The Dashboard provides key information in the form of tiles on module specific tabs about the functioning of the relevant module. All users have access to the Dashboard and the data in each graphic tile can be extracted in JPEG, PNG or Excel format. The Dashboard displays tiles which are either graphs, tables or lists.

        9.1 Documents
            ▪ Documents Ageing For You
This dashboard tile lists the number of issued document workflow tasks for the logged on user in groupings of the number of days that they have been outstanding. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to display the relevant tasks involved and then further expanded to list the documents in that task. Click on the document to go directly to the task.. As soon as a task on a document is completed then the document is removed from this tile.

            ▪ Documents Ageing by User
This dashboard tile lists the number of issued document workflow tasks in groupings of the number of days that they have been outstanding. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to display the users responsible for the tasks and then each user can be further expanded to lists the relevant activities involved. As soon as a task is completed then it is removed from this tile.
            ▪ Current Workflow Status
This dashboard tile lists the number of documents currently going through a workflow activity. As soon as the document has completed that workflow activity then it either moves over to the next workflow activity or it is removed from the tile when it is no longer in workflow.

            ▪ Documents Impending Review
This bar chart defaults to “In the Future” and lists the number of documents with an impending review date during upcoming periods. So Next 7 Days will list the number of documents with Review dates starting from tomorrow being day 1 until the end of day 7. The Next 30 Days will list the number of documents with Review dates starting from tomorrow being day 1 until the end of day 30, and so on. Once a document has passed it review date it is listed on the section that is accessed by clicking on “Passed Review Date” which will list documents who have exceeded their scheduled review date by similar periods. So Past 7 Days will be for documents that have exceeded their review date from today with yesterday being day 1 until the end of day 7. The Past 30 Days will list the number of documents that have passed their review date from today with yesterday being day 1 until the end of day 30. The same applies to Past 60 Days and Past 90 Days.

            ▪ Average Time from Upload to Published - Hours
This dashboard tile provides an analysis of the average number of hours that documents have taken from upload to publish with the delay always rounding up to the next hour. So if a document took 19 minutes from upload to being published it will be displayed as having taken 1 hour. The dashboard tile defaults to “New Documents” and will display the average time from upload to publish of the original versions of documents only over various periods being “Last Month”, “Last 3 Months”, “Last 6 Months” and “Last Year”. So “Last Year” being from today to a year ago. The display can be changed to “New Versions” which will then report only on the subsequent versions of the “original documents” in the system.
            ▪ Aging of Checked Out Documents
This displays the number of documents that have been in the current status of Check Out by the length of time that they have been in that status. So for 7 Days it will display the number of documents that have been have checked out by up to 7 Days, while 90 Days will display the documents that have been checked out by up to 90 Days but more than 60 Days. A document is removed from this chart when it is no longer in the status of Check Out.
            ▪ Published Documents
This displays in red the total number of new documents that were published in the system but not counting any follow-up versions, or revisions, of those documents by the period they were published. With the periods being the “Last Month”, “Last 3 Months”, “Last 6 Months” and the “Last Year”. In green are listed the follow-up versions only of the new documents that were published during the same periods.

            ▪ 5 Worst Approvers - Hours
This dashboard tile provides an analysis of the worst five (5) approvers of documents on the basis of the number of hours they took to approve a document after being notified with the delay always rounding up to the next hour. So if a document was approved in 5 minutes it will be displayed as having taken 1 hour to be approved. The tile will list the name of the user, the number of documents involved, their best approval period, their average approval period and their worst approval period. So if only one document is involved the best, average and worse times will be the same.

        9.2 CAPA
            ▪ Your Open CAPA Ageing
This dashboard tile lists the number of CAPAs that are still open and have been assigned to you, in groupings of the number of days since they have been logged into isoTracker. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to list the relevant CAPA numbers involved which can be clicked on to open it. As soon as a CAPA is closed it is removed from this tile.

            ▪ Your Active Corrective Action Target Dates
This dashboard tile lists the total number of open Implementation and Effectiveness tasks in a Corrective Action that are your responsibility and that have exceeded their due date on all open CAPAs or are impending on open CAPAs. Implementation – Past Due Date will list all the Corrective Action Implementation tasks that have exceeded their due date. Effectiveness – Past Due Date will list all the Corrective Action Effectiveness tasks that have exceeded their due date. Implementation - Upcoming will list the Corrective Action Implementation tasks that are upcoming, while Effectiveness - Upcoming will list the Corrective Action Effectiveness tasks that are the next one due after the previous one has been completed. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to list the relevant CAPA numbers involved which can each be clicked on to open it.

            ▪ Your Active Preventive Action Target Dates
This dashboard tile lists the total number of open Implementation and Effectiveness tasks in a Preventive Action that are your responsibility and that have exceeded their due date on all open CAPAs or are impending on open CAPAs. Implementation – Past Due Date will list all the Preventive Action Implementation tasks that have exceeded their due date. Effectiveness – Past Due Date will list all the Preventive Action Effectiveness tasks that have exceeded their due date. Implementation - Upcoming will list the Preventive Action Implementation tasks that are upcoming, while Effectiveness - Upcoming will list the Preventive Action Effectiveness tasks that are the next one due after the previous one has been completed. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to list the relevant CAPA numbers involved which can each be clicked on to open it.
            ▪ All Open CAPA Ageing
This dashboard tile lists the number of CAPAs that are still open in groupings of the number of days since they have been logged into isoTracker. If the number in brackets on the right is
(1) or greater then that grouping can be expanded to display the assigned users and then each user can be further expanded to list the relevant CAPA numbers involved which can be clicked on to open it. As soon as a CAPA is closed it is removed from this tile.
    • CAPA Status
This lists the status of CAPAs for the current calendar year and the previous calendar year with an explanation of each of the fields as follows:
        ◦ LY: means “Last Year” which is the previous calendar year in full so from 1st January to 31st December
        ◦ LYTD: means “Last Year to Date” which is the period from 1st January of last year to today’s date but of last year. So if today is 28th August 2015 the period in question is 1st January 2014 to 28th August 2014
        ◦ YTD: means “Year to Date” which is the period from 1st January of this year to today.
        ◦ Logged CAPA: being the number of CAPAs logged during the relevant period
        ◦ Closed CAPAs: being the number of CAPAs that were closed during the relevant period but that were logged during and prior to the relevant period
        ◦ Open CAPAs: being the number of CAPAs still open at the end of the relevant period but that were logged during and prior to the relevant period
        ◦ Avg Days Open: being the average number of days that CAPAs were open and that where closed during the relevant period
        ◦ Max Days Open: being the maximum number of days that CAPAs were open and that where closed during the relevant period
        ◦ Min Days Open: being the minimum number of days that CAPAs were open and that where closed during the relevant period

    • Open CAPA Ageing
This bar chart lists the number of CAPAs that are still open in groupings of the number of days since they have been logged into isoTracker. The groupings are 0 – 29 Days, 30 – 59 Days, 60 – 89 Days and 90 Days plus. As soon as a CAPA is closed it is removed from this bar chart.
    • Past Due Corrective Action Tasks by Priority
This bar chart lists all the open Corrective Action Implementation and Effectiveness tasks that have exceeded their due date by their Priority. It will list the number of Implementation tasks that are still open for each Priority and the number of Effectiveness tasks that are still open for each Priority. As soon as a task is completed it is removed from this bar chart.

    • Past Due Preventive Action Tasks by Priority
This bar chart lists all the open Preventive Action Implementation and Effectiveness tasks that have exceeded their due date by their Priority. It will list the number of Implementation tasks that are still open for each Priority and the number of Effectiveness tasks that are still open for each Priority. As soon as a task is completed it is removed from this bar chart.

    • Top 5 Past Due Corrective Action Tasks by Assigned User
This bar chart lists the top 5 offenders that have open Corrective Action Implementation and Effectiveness tasks that have exceeded their due date. It will list the number of Implementation tasks that are still open for each top 5 user/group and the number of Effectiveness tasks that are still open for each top 5 user/group. As soon as a task is completed it is removed from this bar chart.
Top 5 Past Due Preventive Action Tasks by Assigned User
This bar chart lists the top 5 offenders that have open Preventive Action Implementation and Effectiveness tasks that have exceeded their due date. It will list the number of Implementation tasks that are still open for each top 5 user/group and the number of Effectiveness tasks that are still open for each top 5 user/group. As soon as a task is completed it is removed from this bar chart.

    • Top 5 CAPA Assigned Users
This bar chart lists the top 5 users or groups of users that have been assigned CAPAs since the beginning of your isoTracker account. It will list the number of CAPAs currently open that are assigned to that Assigned User/Group and the total number of CAPAs that were assigned to that Assigned User/Group.

    • CAPA Monthly Status – Prior 3 Months
This bar chart lists the number of CAPAs that were logged and closed during that month and the total number of CAPAs that were open at the end of that month. The periods are the current month, last months, two months ago and three months ago. The current month will
mostly be a partial month with the total number of CAPAs that are still open at the end of the partial month period.
    • Top 5 CAPA About
This bar chart lists the top 5 subjects of all CAPAs, being the About details of your CAPAs, since the beginning of your isoTracker account by the number of CAPAs currently open with that About and the total number of CAPAs that were recorded with that About.
    • CAPA by Priority
This bar chart lists the of all the CAPAs by their Priority with the most severe on the left by the number of CAPAs currently open with that Priority and the total number of CAPAs that were recorded with that Priority.

    • Source Module of CAPA
This bar chart lists the number of CAPAs that were source from each module from the start of your isoTracker account. It lists the number of CAPAs currently open that originated from that module and the total number of CAPAs that were recorded from that module.

    • CAPA Relationship
This bar chart lists the number of CAPAs that have a Corrective Action and the number of CAPAs that have a Preventive Action. If they have both then they are listed under Both and if they have none then they are listed under None. The chart splits the listing by the CAPAs that are open and the total CAPAs that have been recorded since the beginning of your isoTracker account.
    • Root Cause Relationship
This bar chart lists the number of Root Causes that have a Corrective Action and the number of Root Causes that have a Preventive Action. If they have both then they are listed under Both and if they have none then they are listed under None. The chart splits the listing by the CAPAs that are open and the total CAPAs that have been recorded since the beginning of your isoTracker account.

    • Non-Conformance Relationship
This bar chart lists the number of Non-Conformances that have a Corrective Action and the number of Root Causes that have a Preventive Action. If they have both then they are listed under Both and if they have none then they are listed under None. The chart splits the listing by the CAPAs that are open and the total CAPAs that have been recorded since the beginning of your isoTracker account.

        9.3 Complaints
            ▪ Your Open Complaints Ageing
This dashboard tile lists the number of complaints that are still open and have been assigned to you, in groupings of the number of days since they have been logged into isoTracker. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to list the relevant complaint numbers involved which can be clicked on to open it. As soon as a complaint is closed it is removed from this tile.

            ▪ Your Active Tasks
This dashboard tile lists the total number of open Tasks and Close tasks that are your responsibility on all open complaints that have exceeded their due date or are the ones next due up. Close – Past Due Date will list all the Close tasks that have exceeded their due date. Tasks – Past Due Date will list all the Tasks that have exceeded their due date. Close will list the Close tasks that are upcoming, while Tasks will list the Tasks that are the next one due after the previous one has been completed. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater, then that grouping can be expanded to list the relevant complaint numbers involved which can be clicked on to open it.
            ▪ All Open Complaints Ageing
This dashboard tile lists the number of complaints that are still open in groupings of the number of days since they have been logged into isoTracker. If the number in brackets on the right is (1) or greater then that grouping can be expanded to display the assigned users and then each user can be further expanded to list the relevant complaint numbers involved which can be clicked on to open it. As soon as a complaint is closed it is removed from this tile.

            ▪ Complaints Status
This lists the status of complaints for the current calendar year and the previous calendar year with an explanation of each of the fields as follows:
                • LY: means “Last Year” which is the previous calendar year in full so from 1st January to 31st December
                • LYTD: means “Last Year to Date” which is the period from 1st January of last year to today’s date but of last year. So if today is 28th August 2015 the period in question is 1st January 2014 to 28th August 2014
                • YTD: means “Year to Date” which is the period from 1st January of this year to today.
                • Logged Complaint: being the number of complaints logged during the relevant period
                • Closed Complaints: being the number of complaints that were closed during the relevant period but that were logged during and prior to the relevant period
                • Open Complaints: being the number of complaints still open at the end of the relevant period but that were logged during and prior to the relevant period
                • Avg Days Open: being the average number of days that complaints were open and that where closed during the relevant period
                • Max Days Open: being the maximum number of days that complaints were open and that where closed during the relevant period
                • Min Days Open: being the minimum number of days that complaints were open and that where closed during the relevant period
            ▪ Open Complaints Ageing
This bar chart lists the number of complaints that are still open in groupings of the number of days since they have been logged into isoTracker. The groupings are 0 – 29 Days, 30 – 59 Days, 60 – 89 Days and 90 Days plus. As soon as a complaint is closed it is removed from this bar chart.
            ▪ Open Past Due Date Tasks by Severity
This bar chart lists the of all the open Tasks and Close tasks that have exceeded their Due Date by their Severity. It will list the number of Tasks that are still open for each Severity and the number of Close tasks that are still open for each Severity. As soon as a task is completed it is removed from this bar chart.

            ▪ Complaints Monthly Status – Prior 3 Months
This bar chart lists the number of complaints were logged and closed during that month and the total number of complaints that were open at the end of that month. The periods are the current month, last months, two months ago and three months ago. The current month will mostly be a partial month with the total number of complaints that are still open at the end of the partial month period.

            ▪ Top 5 Complaints by Type
This bar chart lists the top 5 types of complaints, being the item select in the Type drop down list, since the beginning of your isoTracker account by the number of complaints currently open with that Type and the total number of complaints that were recorded with that Type.

            ▪ Top 5 Complaints From
This bar chart lists the top 5 complainants, being the From people of your complaints, since the beginning of your isoTracker account by the number of complaints currently open with that From and the total number of complaints that were received from that From.
            ▪ Complaints by Severity
This bar chart lists the of all the complaints by their Severity with the most severe on the left by the number of complaints currently open with that Severity and the total number of complaints that were recorded with that Severity.
            ▪ Top 5 Assigned Complaints
This bar chart lists the top 5 users or groups of users that have been assigned complaints since the beginning of your isoTracker account. It will list the number of complaints currently open that are assigned to that Assigned User/Group and the total number of complaints that were assigned to that Assigned User/Group.

            ▪ Top 5 Complaints About
This bar chart lists the top 5 subjects of all complaints, being the About details of your complaints, since the beginning of your isoTracker account by the number of complaints currently open with that About and the total number of complaints that were recorded with that About.